Top of the morning to you, Bitcoin live. Bob Lucas, Thursday morning with another midweek update. Where the update isn't positive, unfortunately, we still have what feels like a tremendous amount of weight or pressure on this market.

Equities and other markets are still doing relatively well, holding up well, whereas Bitcoin keeps pushing more of the lower boundaries, more testing support versus pushing against resistance, which is what we want to see.

The last major, major cycle low was back on twenty first of November. That was a clean out of course on this big decline from the one hundred seventeen level all the way to eighty. That's a washout. That's a cycle low in any book.

Where the other prior sixty day cycle lows fall are a little aren't as clear. The mid cycles are clear, though. Each one of these kind of represents a low. And right now, we're getting closer to one of these, at least a mid cycle lower in my opinion, here on day twenty seven. Same with the equity market, you can kind of see that in that chart as well. So I think we're getting close to some type of low.

The unfortunate thing is that being this is now what I believe of course is the four year cycle declining phase, so therefore a bear market. In bear markets, sometimes these new cycle rallies don't last too long. This one didn't last long at all, hasn't even made a weekly swing. So here's the last weekly candle that represents what I think is also a weekly cycle low, an important low.

The bounce back hasn't even gone or hasn't made it above the highs of that candle, which just speaks to the very, very bearish nature of this. My other main concern remains that if this is a confirmed it's not confirmed because we don't have a close above the swing. The swing level there at ninety five nine, almost ninety six thousand. Without clearing that level, it's hard to definitively say that this is a cycle low.

But in my opinion, it should be the way the equity markets have behaved because this is thirty two weeks in very, very deep in this cycle. Although the indicator hasn't even been able to turn here.

So the argument is that we should really find support here. We should hold these lows and we should at least make it back to the hundred thousand, hundred and ten in that range, form a left translated weekly cycle, get everybody excited again, then roll over. That's been my my view here for the last month or so, but it's just not happening. That's the concern.

And the major concern which is why I'm getting more and more defensive is simply because what if this is a week three high in the cycle. So a very bearish left translated cycle meaning that Bitcoin kind of wants to get down by sort of the March timeframe to a lower much lower level before giving off and which will come. There's no doubt in my opinion even in the bear market that we'll get a really significant rally at some point in Bitcoin because it's just so oversold and sentiment so low. My my concern again though is that it may not come until, you know, like twenty weeks in, sort of February, March, or April.

That is my my reasoning here for being a lot lighter in positioning and therefore giving up some of the upside if this does hold this level. So it's it's always a trade off between the two. Some people are gonna be like, well, I'm afraid that this bottoms out right here or hold this level, I should say, and then makes a push to above ninety five, ninety six. It gets kinda late to buy back in on the idea that's only gonna make it to a hundred, a hundred and ten, and that's true.

You have to give up some of the upside whenever you're not exposed. So So if you're more in a cash position or defensive position and you're protecting yourself from the downside, it obviously by default means you're going to be not participating fully in any upside move. And for me, that's okay, right? Because I think an investor, there's a time to be very bullish, there's a time to be aggressive, there's time to be defensive, and so on.

And this, given this chart pattern, given where we stand in the four year cycle, I lean more at least in the middle of I wanna be also defensive and not just purely offensive because I don't wanna be taking a significant drawdown on on positions. Because my again, my fear remains similar to kind of my thought back up here when it was at one ten. I was like, it's gonna bounce. It's gonna hold probably the hundred thousand and go again, and it didn't and went straight to eighty.

The same argument kind of holds. Well, what if from eighty, loses eighty and goes straight down to sixty? Bitcoin historically has been able to do things like that, and I wanna be less exposed if that were to happen.

Otherwise, yeah, this just isn't positive action at all.

Can I hold this level? I don't know. Day twenty seven, it could have three to five or seven more days to the downside, which means it can test eighty three. It could also then double bottom off the eighty thousand level in the next few days.

Multiple kind of scenarios here, the clarity isn't great and that's just something we have to acknowledge. When we don't have a defined bull market trend or uptrend. If anything, we're really honest with this. We're in a defined intermediate downtrend right here.

We see lower cycle highs, lower lows. Therefore, the default view or at least view or the possibility that has a higher probability is the one where it's heading down and testing these lower lows. For now, there isn't a whole lot to get excited about until you get back above ninety four thousand.

At least clear out and make thirty day highs and then you can make the argument that at least this low is in and we're now in a new period of upside. A lot of it's gonna depend as well on what's happening in the equity markets. And my view on the stock market is that we're due a whole day rally.

But as you can see right here on the daily, we're showing somewhat signs of a possible double top. This also on this forty day cycle, which the equity market runs on, of course, because it's calendar days trading days, day eighteen. So when you look at tomorrow, day nineteen, bitcoin will trade Saturday, Sunday. By Monday, you're looking at day twenty, kind of the mid cycle point for the equity markets. And by that point, Bitcoin will be on day thirty. So there may be a few more days of downside here before the mid cycle on the equity markets forms.

And in relation as well to Bitcoin, this would also mark the mid cycle point. Again, the key difference, of course, is that if we get three or four more days of downside action into the mid cycle low, bitcoin could be testing those lows versus the equity markets. And again, this just speaks to the relative difference or strength between the two, the equity markets will be well above or still comfortably above the lows from November.

Still holding out that this is a good positive period, The whole day period that still hasn't materialized yet, maybe this one drop down equity markets and then off to the highs and we can go. Therefore, the Bitcoin front, maybe we see this area and then off to make those highs. But once more, this is a period for me of just protecting the gains of the overall cycle, right, because we've gone a long way for this cycle, and we're gonna protect more than just participate. Again, also my my framing is the four year cycle that's peaked, and I have to keep that in the back of my mind when I'm looking at these weekly cycles and even the upside from this point up to that level.

It's significant at thirty percent, but it also comes with sticking your neck out more so to capture that, and they're still down to that sort of sixty thousand level an equivalent sort of thirty percent possible drawdown. So right now, because we're in this sort of three, four week range where the cycle low is, it's sort of a fifty-fifty shot on the cycle is going to hold and we're going to make this run up into January, February with a thirty percent gain versus on the other side, it doesn't hold. We're firmly locked into this bear market decline now from this high And all of a sudden, you're drawing down another thirty percent.

So the trade off is, do I hold and draw down?

Or do we participate, hold that level and move up? You may argue, well, why would you sell before that? Because the problem with this level here is if this is a week three high, then that eighty thousand level may provide very short term support, but then it would also roll over. So you really can't use this eighty thousand level, which is probably the last line of support as a stop level because we may easily get something like this.

And then, you know, you'll be selling kind of that those lows at the mid cycle point, get flushed out, may not even be that much down to seventy eight, for example, and then quickly v shape up, holiday seasons in all the way into the end of the year, and before you know it's back up. So it's a market that is whipsawing and allocating back and forth buy, sell, buy, sell has been very difficult for people who are trying to do that as you can see from all these gyrations. It's not a clean market in terms of its price action. So I think just taking fewer actions, reducing size and being comfortable with losing some upside, protecting to the downside is probably the way to go.

Also on the altcoin front, looking really, really discouraging overall. Here's Bitcoin dominance going up while Bitcoin remains somewhat weak. You look at some of these alts again, and I was looking at Sol earlier.

This is already tested or it's actually exceeded those Friday, November twenty first lows. So it's made that low slight there. This is not a good looking chart. If you look at it on the weekly as well, right, it's it's sort of holding on right here and zooming out.

If we're in this four year cycle decline, sure, we'll probably get something like a bounce. But, you know, these are setting up for what they do in many, many in all the prior cycles. Right? Here's the big decline.

They collapse. Once they lose that final level of support and the four year cycle decline becomes more obvious, these just drop like an absolute stone. So even though they're down fifty percent from those from those highs, if you're still holding these positions, they can still comfortably over sort of a six or nine month period into next four year cycle low can drop another seventy or eighty percent. I did a tweet on XRP, which is a similar kind of thing.

Right? It's already down from the highs a forty five percent move, which is significant. But when you look at what it's done in the past, here's the last four year cycle high, dropped. This chart doesn't go back, of course, but there's the other price cycle.

Here's here's part of it, of course, all the way up from kind of a dollar fifty or whatever it was down to fifteen cents. These round trip significantly every cycle, and I do not see a reason why all of these will not round trip at some point. So again, my message on on these altcoins is this is not a time to be trying to capture the the long elusive altcoin season positioning for those is just going to probably hurt more than anything else. So be very mindful of that.

I think the cycle this cycle has proven that, sure, you may cap capture some gains in all coins, and we did earlier in the cycle when things were mostly moving up. But this phase of the cycle, it's a very dangerous game to be playing. That also includes Ethereum, Probably the the the better of all of them. If you look at ETH BTC, this is I'm still holding a position in this.

But daily, if you look at what happened on ETH, it had a breakout and it failed. So a really nice clean breakout right there, big move up, and now it's back all the way in. This is a bearish shot. This is a failed breakout on a very good setup back down to this range, and this is concerning for the altcoin space as a whole.

So be very careful on any altcoin exposure. I've been saying for a long time that you really should have very little exposure, and that's been the right call. And again, this phase of the four year cycle, there's a trap where people think, okay, it's late late the cycle. We're gonna get some old coin season.

That's where I wanna be. Well, the behavior of old coins this entire cycle has proven as unlike prior cycles. The interest isn't there. So to believe an all coin season is coming purely because of that narrative, I think is probably misguided more than anything else.

So the takeaways overall is do less right now. This is a choppy market.

Even just yes I think it was yesterday. Here it is. Here's that candle. We were sitting at eighty six, and I looked back at one point.

It was over ninety thousand. I thought, oh, must have been some major news. And then within twenty minutes later, it was back down to eighty seven. So if you're looking at it on a four hour or constantly checking price and you're seeing these moves, I know there's this tendency to say, okay.

Well, maybe I was wrong. I shouldn't have sold. You buy right at ninety, and then all of a sudden, it's back down. You sell again.

And then this morning, you wake up. It's back at eighty nine. You don't wanna play that game. Right?

You wanna just zoom out and acknowledge that this is a range right here that's really choppy.

And if you're selling, buying, selling, buying, selling, you're just gonna get chopped apart pieces. Reduce the exposure overall, and let's wait for this more clarity to develop. If anything, wanna be maybe selling higher higher levels even more and then looking to buy at these lower levels around eight low eighties if we get down to that point. And then if it continues dropping, then you'd probably look to sell again.

So, yeah, we don't wanna be sort of selling at this sort of bottom level right here. The midpoint, somewhat okay to reduce exposure. I think that's fine. And right now, we do get a push back up to ninety one, ninety two, I'd be inclined to sell even more.

And then I'm only a little step away from new one month highs where I can say, okay, we've bottomed out, half cycle lowers in, and we can now buy again with some more confidence because it's cleared all this level. And on the weekly, it would clear that swing point as well.

And here is that level at ninety six. So anything around ninety two, ninety three, which would test the highs of last week's candle and the candle before, I think could be a reduced level. And then, of course, back above ninety six probably is an indicator that the cycle has not topped because week three is early for a cycle to peak.

An extreme bear market, no. But in general, it's pretty early. So my main view is it's just gonna screw around people here, maybe take out these eighty eighty thousand lows very temporarily. Don't wanna get sort of sucked into that necessarily by selling a lot there.

I think it's gonna hold this level, and then maybe by the end of the weekend or next week, start to make a move up and then finally get that that whole day move. But it does feel as if you know, I mean, it doesn't feel it has really made it difficult for a lot of traders, bulls and bears alike. And the max pain kind of view here would be, you know, by the weekend or so, sweep those lows here, the weekly cycle lows briefly, and then shake everybody out, and then finally start this run up to February, pull back maybe even to late February. And then, you know, the bull market's back on, four year cycle's over.

It's all it's all nonsense, and then roll over.

K?

So, yeah, in an environment where it hasn't gone anywhere for an entire year, Bitcoin's kinda down five percent for the entire year and chopped around like this.

Don't read too deep into this. And even all of my analysis, and Peter's Peter Brandt says this a lot.

Technical analysis, charting cycles, there's a whole lot. They're there to provide an edge. And when they're when the clarity is not clean, when you're not seeing nice trending markets like what we're seeing in stocks or gold, for example, or what we saw in Bitcoin earlier in this four year cycle, when it's when the clarity is not there, you don't want to make too many decisions based on this. You just want to basically acknowledge the environment that we're in, reduce that exposure overall. It's okay to miss some upside if it means that you're not going to get caught in a significant drawdown. And I think that's the right play right now.

So with that, be well. Have a great weekend if I don't get a chance to do a weekend update. Otherwise, of course, there'll be a full cycle report on Monday or Tuesday. Take care.