Hello. Bitcoin live. Bob Lucas here Tuesday with a full cycles report. It also will be the last video for the year. I'm going on a family annual family vacation first thing tomorrow morning back on New Year's Day.

So the next video will be the day after on either the first or the second of January.

If there's anything really important, I'll do an alert in the system for you. But otherwise, that will be the next video post that I produce.

Before I get into the video, I do wanna wish for everybody that celebrates, of course, a very merry Christmas. And to everybody out there, I wish you all the very best for twenty twenty six health, prosperity for you and your family.

I do thank you for being part of this service. It means a lot to me. I enjoy doing these videos. I enjoy helping people. It's not always gonna be perfect, but I hope that after being part of this service that it allows you to also grow as an investor, as a trader, and helps you mature in the space, see other opportunities that are out there, and just grow overall.

So thank you for being here. I do appreciate it very, very much. I know all the other analysts do as well.

Looking at Bitcoin, I want to also address the four year cycle announcement yesterday that I decided to cut a position further. The plan was to wait for a counter trend move to at least obtain a much more attractive price at the six figure level closer to the highs of what I believe is a four year cycle, one hundred, one hundred and five, one hundred and ten. Those actions are still in place if we get up to that point.

But I wanted to cut some more of the position primarily because somewhat of a gut feel, but also because now I think the four year cycle highs in, I don't wanna kind of argue over or try and just capture another ten thousand dollar move when the downside risk is real at this point. I do think we're overdue a counter trend move. Everything about this screams we're we're gonna get a nice big solid rally. The sentiment levels are very, very low.

We have what to me looks like a very clean weekly cycle low. Even though we don't have a swing, we didn't get above those highs. For me, this is the weekly cycle low. It's the right timing bands extended at thirty two weeks.

The last two were a similar duration.

This should be a major resetting point, and we should be seeing that counter move.

However, now we're five weeks into this, and we still haven't seen anything close to a counter trend move develop. And the longer this moves like this, the more I'm afraid that this is setting up for yet another downside leg. It shouldn't be that way. We should see some early cycle strength even in the bear market.

The first sort of five weeks, seven weeks are typically strong, then you get the rollover in a left translated cycle manner, but we've yet to see that materialize. And as you look at the equity markets that also formed a low right at the same time, sort of confirming the fact that this should be a weekly cycle low. And they've at least I mean, they haven't really broken out yet, but equities have at least come back to the all time high level, showing us some strength, whereas Bitcoin continues to show this negative relative strength or this divergence to equity markets and other risk assets, which are doing fairly well.

That, to me, speaks to what's been happening now since the peak and also since kind of earlier in the year where there were sort of outperforming risk markets and now they've significantly underperforming. And there's been a huge amount of whale selling as we know, whereas the narrative overall for crypto remains really strong. So I sit back and I think the narrative is there. The administration is behind Bitcoin.

The institutions are behind. Sailors buying.

But the price has significantly diverged. So in the year three of a four year cycle when all the narrative is there and price is doing this, I have to listen. So acknowledging for me that I think the four year cycle highs in and looking at this price action is simply the reason why I think I wanted to cut some more of that four year cycle position because I just don't know that countertrim move and Bitcoin historically does do a lot of damage or the max pain kind of scenario.

I just don't know if this here is looking like it's flagging and then rolling over into a much deeper level before coming close to sort of maybe bottoming out for a period and then or maybe kind of doing something like this. Then going on this sort of countertrim move back up to this level, everybody then can talk about the four year cycle being over and then one final move down.

It just it's just a risk reward play. It's a decision to say, yes. I do primarily think still that we can get this counter move now over the next sort of six weeks to this level, and we will sell or I will sell some more of the four year cycle model at that level.

But I'm also thinking, hey, it's been so weak. It's diverging. What if equity markets don't want to push through all time highs? What if they want to go through a three month corrective phase?

In that case, given the weakness that we've seen in bitcoin, we could see this kind of thing develop over here. So I'm not trying to predict one way or the other. I'm trying to acknowledge what has a good possibility of occurring and positioning as best as possible for both. Same with the spot portfolio, the more active portfolio into more of a fifty percent position for the same reason, right?

There's more there's a somewhat of a defined limited upside, I think, in the near term. And there's also a pretty well defined now continuation of this downtrend lower that I wanna be more protected against. So the action right now is not to try and find where there's more opportunity. It's more just reduce size, take a step back, and acknowledge that Bitcoin has been weak, that crypto as a whole has been a lot weaker in an environment that should be much more positive.

So I want to be defensive more than anything else, giving up some upside. So if we do get a counter trend move, I may look to reenter back in at the sort of ninety five, ninety six level to capture that last bit, but I'm not sure if I will at this point. It's gonna be a wait and see. But I've been willing to ride with less of a long position in that scenario for more of that downside pressure that could be coming here and not being exposed to a significant drawdown.

There's a level here of eighty four thousand that I think is also key. We came up to ninety four thousand and then dropped in the same week down to eighty four thousand. We came back up to ninety four thousand and dropped down to eighty four thousand once more. So there's also a little bit of a mini range in here that I think we have to respect.

So I think if you lose this low eighty three point eight percent, eighty three point five percent level, depending on your own exposure overall, I think you want to respect that level as key because that then I think would signal it would be a five to six week low at that point and could signal that the top in this weekly cycle was already in and that that downside move is now in progress. So be very much aware of that. Don't wanna complicate it any more than that. There will be a lot of opportunities that come out of this at some point.

If we do see this downside move into February or March, that will set up for a really nice long trade. And sometimes counter trend moves or bear market rally moves are highly profitable as well. So there will be opportunities at that point to come.

And I do suspect I mentioned this in the four year cycle video yesterday. I do suspect that this next four year cycle, though, may come earlier. We have a big midterm election coming up next year. The market needs to be doing well by that point.

And this whole four year cycle has been a front run quite a bit with the ETF. There was an all time high much sooner than prior cycles.

And that tells me that it's possible that if the declining phase has started sooner and we get some big downside action quicker, sentiment can get flushed out. Cycles and cycle lows are about washing out long term sentiment, and we can get to that point sooner, maybe two, maybe three, maybe even four months sooner than a typical timing for a cycle load. Just as these weekly cycles and sixty day cycles can come sooner or later, it's just a guide or a window. Same can the four year cycle on the monthly time frame can come sooner.

So that's something that's a discussion for next year, of course. But if we do see punishing move down lower earlier than people expect, that could be setting up for an earlier four year cycle low, maybe even as early as the July time frame of next year. And that's still a long way out, but we've gone through these long periods before. This where we've gone down or sideways and the market then has bounced.

So these long periods do happen. Here's a twenty five week period from that high. A twenty five week period, don't forget this would be a bear market move. This gets you to March, and then you can get another jump from here and then get another twenty five week move into late summer months, August, September months.

So this could come sooner from a four year cycle low perspective. But for now, there's nothing interesting about this or exciting about this in an environment where it should be. I'm hoping that you've also been able to capitalize over this last year in other opportunities that are being given out there. I did a tweet today.

I've been a little cynical, I must admit, overall, maybe getting a little tired of trolls and so on, and they they shouldn't be getting to me, but sometimes they do.

But for me, even selling some of the four year cycle portfolio back here at eighty one thousand, eighty two thousand in April, the interesting thing about this is that sale, I mean, we're only we're only, like, you know, less than ten percent from that point.

And I could easily buy that back, but I don't want to because my strategy says right here that we're in defense, we're not in offense based on this four year cycle. Until that changes, until the evidence or the price action changes, I don't want to buy it back. And in fact, those funds, because I've shared with you the overall portfolio allocation to different buckets and to the different strategies, those funds back here were only reallocated into equities, into tech stocks, into precious metals. And precious metals, since those April lows, are up one hundred and sixty percent. Silver's up one hundred and forty percent.

NASDAQ's up forty percent off those lows. So if anything, call it a capitulation sale or whatever you want. But in fact, a rotation into other asset classes has proven to be profitable, much more profitable than if I had just held that position would be up eight percent versus rotating into other assets, which are up big double digit numbers as well. So if anything out of this service, I want you to broaden the horizon and to understand that there are always other assets out there, other markets that are doing well.

And I share those with you. Copper being a more recent one. I've shared platinum with you in the past, palladium, of course, precious metals. Equities have done well, tech stocks and so on.

So there's always opportunity out there. I want this to be more of a broad, holistic experience overall and not just a crypto one. Obviously, Bitcoin Live focuses specifically on Bitcoin and crypto as well. But with the introduction over a year ago with the financial type videos, I want you to start, if you're not already, I know many of you are, but to start looking at this more broadly and not just think about Bitcoin being when it's in its bull phase.

Of course, it can be the fastest horse. We know that in a bull market. But it's not always in the bull market. And in fact, this cycle has been difficult for many because they've been getting in and out, in and out, and trading alts and so on.

But this whole cycle has gone 8x up, but it's been limited to more of a twenty week period overall, one, two, three major expansive periods. The rest of the time, it's been chop and churn. So unless you're a buy and hold only person, if you've been active and not being focused on risk management and being disciplined, it's been a choppy, choppy cycle overall. So that's another aspect of what we're trying to do here.

On the altcoin front, no changes at all. If anything, dominance is actually setting up for maybe a continuation higher. It's been back above a ten week moving average. All the alts are pushing big lows.

And this is not a good sign. I don't know why people keep thinking, well, deep value, they're down. They're gonna go up. When Bitcoin's when when crypto's in a bear market, sometimes, yes, you get these sharp rallies.

But, you know, Seoul's a good example. Look at this. This is just sort of looking like it wants to peer over the edge and drop. Again, I think we're overdue these countertrend moves, but we can't ignore what we're seeing in some of these charts.

There is there is soul. If we look at micro strategy, overdue a bounce, but look at this.

Look at this period. It's already looking like it may wanna roll over once more.

And all of these charts are kind of showing us the same hyper liquid.

Right? Three weeks ago, I pointed out that this it looks like it may lose that support. If it does, watch out. And here it is, which already tagged twenty two. These are big numbers because the percentage loss on these are already very big from that level down thirty percent. So, yes, in an uptrending market, these are doing 2x, 3x, 4x very quickly. But don't forget, they're double edged and you can't hold these through drawdowns.

And we've seen that across the board in many of these assets.

So as much as I'd love to see an old season and at some point with the counter trend move, maybe they will do that. But I think the overarching theme for me at least is that they're acting very weak. And when something acts weak, watch out because the surprise can come to the downside. Let's hope I'm wrong, and let's hope that that counter move does come in here.

And we can then maybe exit some more positions at a much higher level. Even if it's with less of an overall position, I'm perfectly okay with that. And at that point, we can see what the market gives us.

So with that, I want to again just wish you a happy New Year to everybody. Thanks for being here, and all the very best.