Good morning, Fintech members. Bob Lucas, Saturday morning with a weekend report. I hope you're all well. Looking forward to the weekend, taking your mind off these markets.

S and P five hundred, a bit of a pullback here, but I don't think it structurally is anything to be concerned about at this point. It's still fairly early in what is clearly now the second daily cycle. That's I think without any dispute. Day eight just closed, pullback after pushing slightly through all time highs and then pulling back to the ten day moving average. In theory, it's just a normal pullback after a little pop up, a pop out, a little failed breakout there.

But again, I think this is set up being early in the second daily cycle for a push through. I'm actually fairly long in the futures market here for a trade. Obviously I'm long in the model portfolio respecting the cycle low that we have back here is still the stopping point. We don't want to see us trade below that level.

If we trade below this clear daily cycle low, that is concerning. And I think I would want to go underweight in the model portfolio. Otherwise, again, looking at the weekly, still pretty early or relatively early in this weekly cycle here sitting or just completed ten weeks. If we're looking for a right translated cycle, we should have at least another five to seven weeks of upside, which is mostly this daily cycle being fully right translated.

So going to around about day thirty of the cycle, that's a full write translated cycle getting us all through the month of February into early March for a peak in the second daily cycle, which could also potentially mark the peak in the weekly cycle here, which again would be around about that week fifteen, week sixteen mark in the cycle.

That's the main read. It has been the main read for a very long time.

No reason to think otherwise. Of course, this could be a little double top in the second cycle, meaning that this forms eventually in the week ten high. But that is being cautious of the downside possibility. We have a fairly clear marker here with the daily cycle low right here in January, January twentieth. That's our level right now. Unless that gets taken out, no reason to feel bearish.

Macro wise, the economy, it feels resilient. Inflation not really going down, but not rising. So macro wise, I think we're in a good place. There is a little concern from the Fed side of things. The market sifting out the fact that the Fed is probably not going to be dovish here in this year with the economy sort of not showing any major signs of weakness and inflation kind of still at that uncomfortable level. So that could be weighing and may weigh on the market here, especially with valuations across the board at sort of relatively high levels.

It's not the greatest environment for stocks to really push up, but we do have momentum behind us. We have trend behind us as we can see clearly from these weekly cycles. We're in a clear bull market trend, but we could be getting into that exhaustion phase of the four year cycle, which is the main overhang on the main concern I have. So the way I view this is on the monthly, we're getting deep into this four year cycle.

It's been a pretty amazing four year cycle from lows in twenty two at three thousand four hundred. So for a four year cycle to have gone up almost basically, well actually a double one hundred percent. That's a significant move for equity market. We had a twenty three percent gaining year, a twenty four percent and a seventeen percent, three big years.

The historical average for the S and P five hundred is every four years you get a down year. That's again, just an average that mirrors the four year cycle. So we're at a point where we could turn. And if we turn, we go into a little cyclical bear market into the four year cycle low. I think that's going to come this year. That has been my view for some time.

But I do think we also, after sort of three or four months of mostly going sideways, still have this one upside move potentially left in us. And this is where we stand in this weekly cycle, week ten. This is that upside move I think we have left that gets us into March where I think there's a good chance the four year cycle peaks. So we peak around week fifteen to seventeen in this weekly cycle.

We peak in the four year cycle in March or April timeframe. Then we get the declining phase of the cycle. That is the way I'm positioned. That's what I'm looking at.

And until the price action tells me otherwise, we won't sort of deviate from that.

Again, we've got this daily cycle load to work with, which is great. Anything below that point now signals a very high chance of a weekly cycle top. Any chance of a weekly cycle top also signals the potential for a four year cycle top. So of course these cycles as we know are intertwined on the different time frames. So if we get a top in the weekly cycle at this late and especially if we trade below the weekly cycle low back here in November, that becomes a failed weekly cycle. And therefore that would mean a top in the four year cycle because you look at the monthly right here, we trade below the last weekly cycle lower right here.

Then that would bring us below that ten month moving average signaling very high chance that the four year cycle high is in.

Those are the markers that we're looking for. We're taking it now at this point in the four year cycle after one hundred percent gain, we're taking it cycle by cycle. So for the four year cycle, we're looking at the weekly cycle. We can't call it Even if the daily cycle fails, meaning that we get below these January lows, that is obviously a reason to get out of short term trades, to get defensive somewhat.

But it's not until the weekly cycle fails could you really call a top in the four year cycle. So that's the way we're looking at this. So the takeaway is still positioned fairly aggressively on the long side of this market, but just keeping an eye on those exits, keeping an eye on this four year cycle for potentially where things could start turning. And this is a momentum game, a sentiment game. If it starts to turn, it starts to snowball and feel itself. And then before you know it, you're in a downtrend. We want to be try and catch that a little bit early, but at the same time, we want to respect the fact that this is a bull market still and the price action has to tell us otherwise.

Turning to gold. Not going to cover this too much. I did a post yesterday, of course, as you saw that.

But when you look at gold, to me, this is all the hallmarks of a top. This run has been phenomenal. It's been two years of up only, which has just been great. We've been waiting or expecting some type of major top at some point.

And now it looks to me as if we have that. For me, it looks like a twenty six week high. I had to readjust this somewhat to mirror this a little bit better. We had the first phase, which looked like a blow off that consolidated and went off into another big move. Looking at the weekly Bollinger Bands and the stretch above that. To me, this signals a major top for now. Not a bull market top, a secular bull market top, but I think a top that's probably gonna take a lot of rebasing consolidation.

And the way I think this is gonna play out now is that we come back, form a weekly cycle lower probably in March, and then probably spend another sort of twenty four weeks or so into the September timeframe in a consolidating kind of pattern. Of course, there'll be more volatility, but that's my main view at the moment. Not changing my allocations. We just went through a full rebalancing of the portfolio after two years of up only and 3x, 4x gains in both gold, obviously silver as well, obviously the miners. So there should have been really, really healthy gains there to rebalance.

But being this is, I think, still a secular bull market, I wanna maintain a good level of position. Here is the monthly view on gold. Since the breakout, and the reason why I think this is still has a lot of upside left in this bull market, we're only since the breakout here that occurred in March of twenty four, it's barely even two years. It's twenty two months.

These secular bull markets typically run for around about six or seven years.

And so I think what we're seeing here is the first half. Here's the eight year cycle low back in twenty late twenty two.

And I think just like that low also represents where the equity markets form its four year cycle low and gold goes in these eight year periods. So this is the first half of the eight year cycle peak. So if you look at this and go out kind of forty eight months, right, you look at November time frame for the low, this is the first half of that. So I can definitely see us sort of coming back and then into September, November or so forming the mid cycle point and then so that resumption of this secular bull market trend. If you look at the weekly as well, going back to to gold.

Right? So you've got this weekly cycle low coming up probably in March, then you've got one more weekly cycle.

When you look at where that kind of ends September October time frame, sort of lines up with this mid cycle point in the eight year cycle for gold. So takeaway is basically we've rebalanced completely, taken all the profit out of this last two years and did that before the crash, which was good. We did that last week.

And so that should be really healthy for the portfolio, avoided this sort of crash. Of course, we still have an allocation that's going to get drawn down. That's the nature of being invested.

I will say though, because I know my member base and I've been with many of you since the last twenty eleven bull market. I know many of you play with a lot of leverage and options and so on. That's your business, of course.

Just be aware there's tendency when you do really, really well, especially with leverage in certain asset classes that you fall in love with those gains. And you see these types of moves as more opportunity to load up again.

So you see a big drawdown in your options positions, the leverage positions, you hold through that. And you use a lot of the gains that you made from the current move, this last two year move, to double down again because you just saw massive paper gains over that period. You're still up a bit, you've lost a lot in this last couple of days. And you use that as a way to leverage up some more. And what can happen often in that situation is you'll see this sort of climb back up, right? Sort of a counter trend move off that collapse.

And that gives you the confidence to keep on doubling down and doubling down with those profits. And then what happens is you get caught in the eventual big drop that comes and you wipe out two years of really, really healthy gains. So be really aware. You should be just content with the fact that you did extremely well. You probably gave back some as well if you stayed in those trades and didn't use stops. But realize that there's a time and a place for everything.

And if you've made your money, bank that money and don't go chasing even bigger and bigger, bigger gains. Of course, it could work out, but I think you want to be content with the fact that the majority of this move is probably done now for this period and that we should be happy with that and wait, bank that profit and use that as a war chest for the next idea where you can get in on an earlier phase of that move. So that's my sort of take on this. You've just got this very, really positive view on the space because you did so well. Divorce yourself from that emotion and realize that this move is probably not sustainable over a long period of time.

And then across the board, looking at some of the others, the dollar bounced back up a little bit here.

This is a monthly. Let's forget that.

Let's go back to the weekly. So we had a counter trend move develop here in the dollar.

So there it is there.

That is a failed cycle on the weekly time frame, but that weekly that hammer candle there could be signaling that the dollar has bottomed out on week nineteen. That's on the cycle.

Normally, there's a few weeks a few more weeks in that area, but that's a pretty impressive little hammer candle that formed on the weekly timeframe.

And taking out those lows could signal that that is the weekly cycle low. If that's the case and we get a bounce back three, six, eight, nine weeks there, that certainly could that would probably hammer the metals down further now that they're more in a vulnerable situation. And looking at the dollar candles on the daily chart as well, There it is. So you've got also this cycle here on day twenty two.

So this looks to me as if the dollar could be bottoming out, so be careful on that. Again, for the metals, there's that failed weekly cycle, but it looks as if it's just run those lows and now could be reversing up from that point. Doesn't help that the Fed really signaled mean, it's not no surprise that they didn't cut rates, but they really did signal more of a wait and see. I wouldn't call it hawkish position, but comfortable with where rates are now.

And I think the market wanted to see a little bit more forward projection on rate cuts and it wasn't really forthcoming. And if the economy stays a little warm and job growth doesn't come down, then those rates may not come down at all this year. And this is why you're seeing a little more strength in the dollar and equities and other risk assets acting a little weaker as well.

Crude oil had a big jump up here. I don't think it's going to go too much further.

You've got a lot of supply out there, but here it is on weekly.

So we had a retest or a failed cycle intra week right there and then a shot up there. Still think this is part of the same cycle. I don't think crude is going to have much more upside, possibly as high as seventy dollars up there. But there are just too many, it's just too much weighing on this market with so much supply and not enough new demand, in my opinion, for crude. But overall, it's good for energy positions that we have.

And so that's favorable overall. But yeah, energy, looking at this, I think has more limited upside. Even though I think it's made a new high, this is a bit of a run on the stops right there.

But I think this will sort of fizzle out up at this high seventy range. Hopefully, or maybe this is putting the bottom here. You've got a sort of a retest of this level now three times. There's a complete retest of some of those lows right there, As you can see, so possibly forming a bottom. Is I mean fifty five dollars is quite cheap. It's very hard to produce oil these days at fifty five dollars a barrel.

So there is an inherent flaw in there. I think that's basically where it's at And we could be reclaiming this old range back above sixty dollars and maybe ranging in between sixty dollars and seventy dollars for the foreseeable future.

But those jump in crude prices at least have lifted up our global iShares position here. Good healthy almost twenty percent pop in the last three or four weeks. Of course still producing a three point five percent dividend. So this looks pretty good from a chart perspective.

Energy producers have become more and more efficient in their profitability with lower prices. So it creates some discipline having lower prices as well. When you get a little bit of a pop in those prices, then they're better and more well positioned for upside gain.

Bitcoin's broken down again here not looking good. A close now last week below the ten week moving average. Looks like another close coming below the ten week moving average. Bulls want to tell you that we're just retesting the weekly cycle low and that's a possibility. But history in cycles tell us that anytime you're retesting the weekly cycle low on week eleven that you want to be really, really concerned.

And given the fact that I think the four year cycle has peaked this excuse me. Very sorry about that. Considering this is week eleven and retesting those lows in a probably a four year cycle declining phase, This is not a good look whatsoever. So I think here on Monday, we'll be going to I want to see how this closes and see how it reacts right here at the lows.

I don't want to just close out or go into underweight right right now. We've waited this long to do that, but I think a closer below those weekly cycle lows is just a time to get even more defensive. Not a good look on Bitcoin unfortunately. It is what it is.

So as a closing remark, just getting going, looking back at equities.

There's a little bit of a sort of an uneasy feeling here in the markets. I'm certainly just feeling it a little bit. Again, I'm a trend follower, so I respect the price action. There's a little bit of a niggling kind of feeling that I have that maybe something's brewing underneath all of this. We're seeing some assets kind of just not trading so well.

So again, focusing on that daily cycle low, think it's going be important and staying the course in general. But yeah, I think there's a little bit of we're coming into a period where we're just going to be a little bit more cautious overall and we'll see how it plays out in the next few weeks. Wishing you all a great weekend, a great week ahead, and all the very best.