Good morning, Bitcoin Live. Happy Monday to you. I wish you a good week ahead. This is your full cycles report. And today on Bitcoin here, I know you're all itching to maybe get back in or do something if you've significantly gone into cash like I have here.

But we're in really this range right now, this area after such big volatility where we're to see, I think, some pretty big moves still continue, but these moves can come in either direction right now. This is the problem after such a big decline. We've now had three or four days where we've kind of stabilized in the sixty eight thousand dollars to seventy one thousand dollars range. But I will highlight one important thing right now is that the mindset is one of being defensive and protecting versus being opportunistic. And that's because we always want to look at the bigger trend, right, the high time frames.

And on the monthly, it's beyond clear that the four year cycle has peaked. We know that now. We're well past that. We're now into the fifth red month as we can see right now. Of course, it's still only onethree of the way through.

But the main point or takeaway is that clearly the trend is down. We had a bull market for three years, okay, and dips were being bought, they're not being bought now. And that's just the hallmark of a bear market decline or a cycle decline is that any moves are typically sold versus the opposite is true in the bull market that the dips are bought very quickly. So you get these situations where you're overbought and the RSI is very high for long periods of time in a bull market.

And the bear market, the RSI is on the bottom and looking very oversold for long periods of time, and the surprises come more to the downside. This is the environment that we're in right now. You see this again clearly on the monthly. Even on the monthly, this does support a good counter trend move to occur at some point.

We had one small one here to ninety eight thousand last month that sort of tagged or didn't really tag or came close to that ten month moving average is now trending lower. Coincidentally, this is a ten, twenty monthly moving average. And you can see how this is going to eventually in the next couple of months cross below like it does in all sort of prior bear markets. And then the whole way up, you see that moving average cross back into the bull zone.

It's obviously lagging.

But you this just confirms the the the bear market phase that we're in. But so we had this move to ninety eight, and then that got reversed. We're gonna see another one before the eventual four year cycle load. That I'm pretty confident about.

That typically happens in any bear market decline. You get these sort of two to six or eight week rallies that occur, allows the sentiment to get sort of reset somewhat and then the bears come back and attack or the sellers come back into the market because they're just looking for just slightly higher prices to be able to unwind those positions. We'll get that. The problem is when you look for it in a bear decline, you're looking for a trend that goes against the primary trend or you're looking for a move that goes against the primary trend.

So looking for it long, it should be more short duration, and the setup has to be ideal with a well defined stop to try and take advantage of that. There's not as much upside juice in those moves with a lot of downside risk, and you see this on the weekly. So on the weekly now, week thirteen. Now clearly, we just came from ninety eight thousand three weeks ago.

Mid January, we're almost in mid February. So three and a half weeks ago, we're at ninety eight thousand. And then five days ago, we're at fifty nine thousand.

Clearly, this needs to kind of bounce or you think it would bounce. The problem is, again, in a bear market with this type of primary trend lower, sometimes you just don't get it or you get it from a very, very low level. So we got to down to fifty nine. We've bounced nicely.

That's that's kind of subjective, but we've we've bounced somewhat.

And now it's a question of which way is it gonna go. Right? And and I don't have that answer because we're in this sort of bear market environment. If equity markets rip through all time highs like we've been waiting and waiting for, then, yeah, this will get a tailwind. But if it stalls, then this will continue. So my point simply here is that the clarity is not great.

And the if you look at this, getting back up to eighty thousand probably could happen in a in three in three or four daily candles.

Right? At the same time in three or four daily candles, could be retesting that fifty nine level maybe blasting through the two hundred week moving average and we're in the mid-50s, right? So one more weekly candle like this is also possible.

This is why at the moment, I'm not in the rush to go long.

I'm worried about possibly the downside move. And even if you look at the daily here, getting back up, here's that eighty thousand level where we had that cycle low, kind of broke down through that level eighty, maybe even as high as eighty five is certainly a possibility as a counter trip move before stalling again. But at the same time, like I said, we you know, we're here's the ten day moving average. We're below that.

We've only just sort of stalled. Rolling over is also not a surprise because if you look at prior bear markets as well, the initial kind of phase Didn't mean to do that. Sorry. As you can see right here, which once you kinda lose that level and you start breaking down, you just continue and continue.

And before you know it, you're near the actual eventual bear market lows. So we could be doing something similar. We may have and here's a good example. We had one, two, three, about six big candles that we flushed all the way down to twenty five thousand, and then it kinda held its ground for three weeks, and then before you knew it, it was down to seventeen thousand.

So we don't know if this is kind of something similar where it holds this level for two or three weeks and then before you know it's in the forties, then you get a big bounce back up to the sixties. Multiple paths now in a bear market, but acknowledging that we're in the bear market decline is the first step right here.

So if you wanna go along, you could here, right? So you've got you may be looking for a couple of things. One, you'll see the daily candle here that made that low to fifty nine. Its high is at seventy one point six.

We briefly touched do we touch seventy? No. Yes. We briefly touched seventy two thousand yesterday.

So you can see there's three or four highs here at the seventy two, the ten days now it's almost seventy two as well. So if we can get above the ten day, get above the four highs of the last four candles here and close above that in the daily, then there at least there's some stabilization of this move and potentially then looking for, you know, a move like this. And then we're going back up towards the eighty thousand, maybe as high as the eighty five thousand. Again, the problem is what are you getting out of something like that?

Right? You to to eighty thousand, you got an eleven percent move up to the eighty five, maybe seventeen percent move.

Coincidentally, they're on the downside to get back to where we touched the other day. And don't forget, it did this in one candle.

That's a seventeen percent decline and then down to that sort of fifty low fifty that I mentioned, for example, in the weekly, if this weekly was to go further down, you've also got a big sort of twenty five percent move. So it's barely a one to one, because where do you put your stop in here as well if you go long? It doesn't set up well is what I'm getting at here. So we're in this environment where I just I'm okay with missing some of these little upside moves if I could avoid big, big drawdowns, right? Because if you're one hundred percent allocated and didn't want to sell at the eighty thousand dollars level, then down to that tip, you've lost twenty five percent of your portfolio. You keep on holding it and then before you know it, you're down thirty five percent on the entire portfolio.

And it happens really quickly in a fast declining market like this. You kinda get caught like a deer in headlights. You don't believe you think it's gonna hold or it breaks through a key support level, and you think I'm not gonna sell right now. This is selling.

This is a bad trap. It's gonna reverse. And then when if it gets too far down, then you say, well, it's gotta end soon. Right?

It can't keep going lower. I'm sure many of you probably thought that last week when it broke through eighty thousand and then ultimately kind of through seventy two.

You're thinking it's so over the soul that's gonna bounce, and then it went to seventy and sixty eight, sixty five, sixty. Before you know it, it was at sixty thousand. Point is that sometimes these moves can just get worse. And where you think it can't get any worse, it just does, and it keeps on getting worse until ultimately becomes too much to bear.

So my point here, again, just to highlight because I think it's important. This is a different market now. We're in the bare phase. We have been obviously for three, four months, but we're in the bare phase.

So it's a different mindset that's required overall and protecting gains wherever your gains were from the prior cycle. If you're mostly Bitcoin, then they're pretty good. They should be pretty good. And in general, away from the old coins should be decent.

So you want to protect that as much as possible and be patient with the idea that we still have, I think, a number of months left in this decline, even though I think we're gonna see at least one good green candle here. If it's this monthly candle or next monthly candle, we'll see a big green candle in here. And if you're if you're not exposed to that to the upside, you don't wanna be upset about something like that. That's the part of the parcel of being in more of a defensive posture in this part of the cycle.

So leaving it up to you with kind of like itching to get long, maybe you've got sixty seven thousand right there, which is the second day, the lows of that candle, right, as a possible stop. So if you're looking to take advantage. But I would at least wait to see if we can get some resolution with what's going on here. We've only really had one daily candle, the reversal that happened back to seventy one.

We haven't pushed through further yet. I know it's still early. It's only three days after that sell off, but this can really go either way, and I would not be surprised one bit. I think if we get above that, it's a counter trend move to eighty, maybe eighty five.

But here, there's still a risk or a danger that this is stalled already. Sellers start to come back in. And before we know, we're pushing back to mid-60s and then after that, it's really anybody's guess. Bitcoin dominance, at least, I mean, they pretty much went down as much as Bitcoin did, maybe a little less given this chart.

But overall, they've suffered essentially the same outcome over the last few weeks. It looks horrible out there. It looks bad. Just don't forget though.

Right? Everyone's kinda saying on socials now, alright, that was it. That was the big flush. We're done.

We can keep on going.

All I want to say to that is if you look at prior bear markets, if you believe this is still the four year cycle peak and four year cycles take time and we're in a declining phase, it's a process. It's a process of down, down, up, down, down, up, down, down into the lows. We are now what's this one, two, three, the fourth month from the high. If you look at the prior cycle, one, two, three, this is where it was at the same equivalent time after the peak, still above the twenty month moving average and below the ten. So it was much higher. Again, reason why we possibly can jump up for a month, but just don't rush the process. If you look at this cycle here as well, this is where it was sort of four months after the high, still at the ten month moving average.

And then the cycle before that back in twenty fourteen, Here's the first big flush from the high one, two, three, four, five candles down to three hundred dollars from one thousand dollars. So a seventy percent decline, obviously, much, much smaller market cap, bigger, wider swings, a lot more volatility. But again, here's just an example of structure and you had this big flush out. Here's a big move up.

Counter trend move back up to six hundred before the big eventual decline. So the takeaway there is that this is a bear market decline. It's probably got five or six months left to go. It's a process.

And if you're gonna get sucked in by all looking for those longs, at least establish a position early and look to unwind that and not add when it seems like, oh, this is actually coming back again. And that's something that could happen right here where you get this rally and you haven't really participated. Everyone's getting excited at eighty, eighty two, eighty three, then you start getting back in and that's roughly where it would peak. I think at this point now, the ten week moving average should pretty much keep any rally contained.

That's still at ninety nine thousand. It's a long way up, but that's going to come start coming down pretty rapidly right now here in the next sort of few weeks.

So that's the way you wanna play here. Conservative, defensive. If you're looking for longs, get them at the right time. Define a stop more importantly.

Don't be don't be chasing these moves. Don't be afraid with the big upside move. You just wanna protect capital because ultimately in this next four year cycle that comes, if we're looking for a continuation of this fifteen year trend, this bull bear sort of trend, right? You want to conserve as much capital as possible to load up on Bitcoin in these lower levels, lower areas near the cycle low because ultimately we're looking for yet another move in the next cycle that's a three, four, five x bitcoin and every and the more bitcoin you can accumulate at these lower levels is going to serve you better in the next bull market versus chopping your account away or holding positions or too much position as it draws down ultimately fifty percent, sixty percent and seventy percent perhaps in the bear market decline.

If for some reason this whole four year cycle is not going to end this way, maybe that's the low or low next month, You're probably not gonna see anything like that until or if we get back above that ten month moving average there at a right about that sort of ninety eight thousand level.

Anything above kind of a hundred thousand now, I know that's still quite a ways above where we are now, but we're not gonna we shouldn't be trading anywhere near that level. If it starts trading back above a hundred thousand at this point, then I'm gonna be like, I'll be quick as possible to adjust my overall bias and my overall thinking to say, hey, you know, wake up. Something's going on here. Something kind of unusual. It's really changing expectation and structure from what it's seen in the past. Let's adapt, let's change. Otherwise, I'm just going to basically take it easy here.

Happy to sit in cash at the moment for here. At the same time, I know this is hard to balance you know, between kind of a huddle strategy and an active strategy or a four year cycle strategy.

But yes, you're not selling anything you plan to hold in the long long term. If you're active, you're active trying to get more Bitcoin or more dollars.

Right? You're taking advantage of of upside moves and and and trying to avoid downside moves. But if you're huddling and you're looking long term, you're starting to get a little excited right now, especially when we tagged sixty thousand last week. I think those levels, especially the lower sixty thousand, seventy thousand still not cheap historically.

If you look at the drawdown from the highs to the seventy thousand level, it's a healthy forty five percent decline. But historically, even the last cycle, you can if you think we're diminishing returns, diminishing declines, which I think definitely holds some truth, even this one was seventy seven percent down. The prior one was something like eighty six percent. So if you're looking at kind of a diminishing decline over the cycles, you're still thinking sixty five percent is is a a is a real possibility.

And sixty five percent here still gets you down to the low forty thousand dollar level. So nibble, yes. Start adding if you want to dollar cost average in for the long term, for the hodlers, but I think you wanna save some dry powder. I still think we're gonna get some good opportunities to get some really cheap Bitcoin even though I think we're gonna get one big green candle in between that that period.

So with that, wishing you a great week up ahead and all the best.