Good morning, Bitcoin Live. Bob Lucas. Saturday morning with an update. Today, I'm gonna just speak a little more freely. No real thoughts that I've planned here. So it's not gonna maybe it may not sound fully coherent.

But firstly, before I get into that, just price action wise, it's just not pretty whatsoever. I see a lot of people on social media still trying to justify every move here from a bullish angle.

And that counter trend move that we were hoping for to one hundred seven doesn't look like at all it's materialized. We've got to move to ninety seven, ninety eight. That might be it at this point.

Bulls want to tell you now that it's okay again, don't worry, don't worry. This is just going to take out those lows and then reverse and then the bull market's going to start. Look, every scenario has some possibility, possibly even some credibility. But I think overall the bulls here, they did in the last cycle and the cycle before, are so vested in a positive outcome that they ignore absolutely everything that's out there. And I can't do that.

I share my views on this service, not from an angle of promotion like many people do. I understand that posting kind of negative or bearish views is not well received by people, especially people who are in that position where they just want to see only positive outcomes and making money, not appreciating that markets are cyclical. We go through these periods where there's a spring, you get in early, there's a summer and you reap the rewards, there's a fall and you harvest those gains to your best of your ability. Then you prepare for the eventual winter.

And by all means, by all accounts, looking at prior cycles, we're in that winter phase and Bitcoin and crypto has entered that phase earlier than other risk assets. That's my interpretation. I have to respect that. People are just too concerned with missing that upside where they have full exposure, they remain committed.

You see this on social media. And then when the market collapses, it's too late to take action. So I've wanted to take action as early as possible while still respecting the fact that we could see the upside. But it comes a time where that bias that tilts to the point where you just can't be too exposed.

I want to focus on cycle to cycle, asset to asset. And for me, this four year cycle in Bitcoin is just one opportunity of many and many and many opportunities that come to investors who have a broad view of assets and want to look for opportunity. This cycle didn't give what the prior cycles gave. Last cycle, in fact, four year cycle wasn't that great for many people as well.

But and I know a lot of people are mad and angry, but there's nothing to be mad about. That's what markets do. They give a lot sometimes and sometimes they make it difficult and sometimes they just take, right? So our job as allocators of our own capital is to take as much as possible and not give back as much as possible. And that's what has been my goal.

Has it been perfect? I don't think anybody can be perfect. We try our best to do what we can from this cycle. But when you look back, we've avoided altcoins all through twenty twenty five pretty much.

Twenty twenty four there was very few. Some of them worked out really well like Solana and some others, and some were stop start. But on the whole, a net even, a net positive. But Bitcoin has been a net positive overall for members.

We pretty much have been riding this whole move up. There were some stop and starts with some of these shakeouts obviously.

But getting in early at that spring at around seventeen thousand or so, still afforded some really good gains, mostly fully allocated throughout this bull market. Half allocated from one hundred and ten thousand reducing some of the downside draw here and now further reduction. So again, you're not going to get the absolute best outcome out of any cycle.

The goal is to get the meat of the cycle and get the meat of the cycle from what the cycle provides. We can't be mad at the price action that it provides us. We can only respond as best as possible. And I feel that given what's transpired over the last two or three years in this cycle, we've done pretty well for what it's given.

That's the most important point I want to make here. So looking at this now, where do we go forward? Look, again, bulls want to tell you to relax. It's okay.

It's just shaking everybody out. But I think there's just a lot of cope that's still going on, that's still going on. Yeah, technically we haven't given up the weekly cycle low. Here's the weekly cycle from my view.

Here's that thirty two week cycle low. We're retesting it right now. We could even, the bulls want to tell you, we could even sort of take out those lows there, trap everybody, stop everybody out and then it's bull market back on. Well, look, it's a possibility.

I'm not going to discount it. All I can say is I have to respect the way Bitcoin has traded for the last decade, its structure, its nature.

And at this point in the four year cycle with what I'm seeing here, to me it's a clear downtrend even though we haven't seen the final hallmark or markers of a full downtrend or full bear market. It's giving us every other indication that it is very close to that.

Of course, we had that divergence with stocks still sitting just below all time highs. We even had gold and silver crash. What was the narrative we heard all last week and last month? Once gold crashes in silver, you're going see a massive rotation and a spike in Bitcoin.

What happened? Silver dropped, gold dropped, and Bitcoin dropped just as much. I mean, that's just telling us that there isn't a rotation trade to go on there, not today at least.

And that this is acting really, really weak. At the moment, what I'm seeing here is the very significant possibility that week nine is the high of this cycle and that the downtrend is now firmly starting to take control and that this will then bleed lower. And before you know it, people are going to be fully trapped long in all their positions, afraid to sell because they're worried that that's the bottom. And this is what happens in a bull market.

You get all these influencers and proponents out there saying, No, it's a trap. It's going to take out these lows. It's going to trap you there. It's going to go up.

Don't sell. And then before you know it, you get the candle that goes all the way down.

Then it's too far down to sell because you're sitting on a fifty percent loss of the position. And you think, well, why should I sell now? Now, that's just such a normal reaction cycle after cycle after cycle. And it's hard to break that. And the only way you can really break that is by further upstream before the real carnage happens. You start to reduce and start to acknowledge the risks and start to have a mindset where you say, you know what, I'm going to be giving up some upside now to start reducing exposure.

If you want to capture every upside move, you have to be fully exposed, which means you're going to take the drawdown. And this is not an asset class with the volatility that it shows that you want to be trapped in positions on drawdowns. I know many of you are holding big old coin positions still thinking that. Bitcoin at least you can kind of get away from it somewhat because the volatility is less.

But in some of these other asset classes, I'm looking at, here's a good example, SWI. I'm not sure how you pronounce it. I mean, it's at one hundred seventeen. You're holding this, you've got in because all the influencers pumped it up.

You're already down seventy eight percent. It's just brutal. And you're thinking, well, too late now, right? I'm not going to sell this. But you look back at the chart, a couple of years ago, was at thirty cents.

Just two years ago, it was at fifty cents. These types of, and I'm not saying it's going to happen, but these types of assets typically, doing them a favor, calling them assets, but these typically retrace the full move of the cycle. And even from here, it can still be another fifty percent drop. You look at some of the big ones, Solana have been warning about how weak it looks, one hundred nine. This is looking as if it could just collapse. It's just retesting already the April lows, not far from that where Bitcoin is still nowhere near those April lows.

Other ones like if I look at XRP, for example, this is a very uncomfortable looking chart right here where people think I can't go to fifty cents. I mean, it traded at fifty cents for during this bull market in fact, for one hundred and twenty eight weeks it traded as low as twenty eight cents. So if you're sitting on a big position, should still be up considerably.

Again, you got to shake that mindset of, well, I've got to be in it to win it type of thing. You've got to be in it to win it in the early phases of the cycle. In the later phases of the cycle, willing and comfortable to say, hey if it goes higher and I'm less exposed or have less of a position, so be it. I made some money earlier on. I want to protect that money because there's always going to be a next cycle whether it's a next four year cycle or next weekly cycle, another asset class.

You want to have that capital fresh and available to be able to take advantage of the next opportunity because there's always going to be a bull market to come, whether it's in rare earth metals or AI or tech or crypto again, wherever it is, it's always another one to take advantage of. If you can't have the mindset of, oh, this is my last and only chance. We saw that a lot of people talking about that about crypto. This is my last cycle.

This is the one I'm gonna make it on. I'm not gonna make those mistakes. I'm gonna cash out. I'm gonna be independently wealthy and so on.

That mindset creates an emotional bias where then you don't respond accordingly. So I don't have the answers on where Bitcoin's going right now.

I don't. I don't think anybody does. All I can know is the price action *****. We're in downtrends.

Look at the monthly on Bitcoin. We're now below the twenty month moving average. You look historically besides the COVID crash perhaps, and that was too early in the cycle anyway after a big pump up, twenty month moving average. We're gonna close this candle in eight hours time.

We're closing this today. So this is not very likely. It is gonna close below that twenty month. It did last month as well.

This is now the fourth consecutive month of being red. You look back here, you don't see a consecutive four consecutive months of red, not even there.

You have to go back to twenty eighteen to see four months red. Bull markets don't have four month of red candles like that. Not this late in the four year cycle, not after a move here that was up seven hundred percent to the peak. It had a move in this cycle. It just gave us what it gave us. I think that's the main takeaway. It went up to thirty five month higher like it did in prior cycles.

So yeah, don't kick yourself that you didn't sell at one hundred twenty eight, one hundred twenty five, whatever. I'm not kicking myself on that. I'm never going to get the absolute peak. The only time you get the absolute peak is if you get something like this in 'seventeen, where it just knew at that point.

Or gold very recently, last week, if you've been following the Fintap reports, basically rebalancing out completely from metals this week, just before the crash. Those blow off parabola kind of moves make it easier to exit. This doesn't give you that, right? This was, especially in the backdrop of Trump administration championing crypto and Bitcoin, all the regulation changes and so on, it was all there, right, for a big move up.

But we didn't get it.

And bulls still want to hang on to that. They want to hang on to all those narratives. Business cycle, liquidity cycle. You name it, they still hang on to it, yet ignoring this.

Now this can reverse. I could be a hundred percent wrong on this view and I'll own that. Right? But I have to respect the chart.

I can't go on face. I can't go on I'm just gonna close my eyes because I hear there's a liquidity cycle coming or a business cycle coming and so on and so on. I just have to respect the price action. And if it goes up sharply and I've got less of a position, I don't care.

I've made a good amount this cycle from getting in early. And that's the way I approach markets. So don't be mad at yourself.

Hopefully you're not going be mad at me. But just in general, you've got to take what you can from cycles and there's a time to be sort of defensive about things. There's a time to be offensive. And that's been, that's I think what I'm trying to do in this service more than anything else, not about signals and trade alerts and so on. It's about the right mindset. It's about being emotionally composed.

It's about trying to extract the most value from a risk adjusted perspective. There are other people out there that are going to leverage trade to the hills and the bull market, and you won't see them talk about it, but they're going to give it all up and more. We see it every cycle. I've seen it in other asset classes as well.

You're only going to hear about these big leverage winners because they think they're geniuses trading in a market that's up only. Anybody can throw darts at a wall in that sort of environment. It's keeping it over the entire cycle. In prior cycles, how many people gave it all up, retraced it back, especially in altcoins and so on.

We don't want to do that. And I think over cycle, through cycle, through cycle, through asset class, through asset class and asset class, the folks that don't give it all back, that avoid the big drawdowns are the ones that are actually doing better in the end.

You won't hear about it. They won't tell you about it, but that's the reality. So that's my rambling message today. I hope it resonates.

And don't worry about where it bounces, what it does and so on, right? We'll have to adjust. Even if it does sharply reverse, and I said ninety five next week, I'm not going to care. If you care about that, get your position back.

Don't come and blame me if Bitcoin's back at ninety five, ninety seven next week and say, well, you told me to sell. Do what you want to do. I'm showing you what I'm going to do because of where I think it's potentially heading and the risk associated with that. If you're worried about this jumping up to ninety seven because this is a retest and so on, Get your position, but then be content with any big drawdowns that come as a result of that.

So wishing you all a good weekend and a great week ahead. Full report probably Monday, if not definitely Tuesday. Take care.