Good morning. Bitcoin Live. Bob Lucas, Thursday with a pretty important update right now. Breakdown across the board in markets, gold, silver has dropped, stocks are down significantly, and Bitcoin seems to be down more than all of those combined, which again illustrates the weakness that we're seeing in crypto here since the peak back in October.

Reducing positions further to just only a quarter percent allocated down from above just slightly above fifty percent. We've been sort of half allocated since that one hundred and ten thousand level protecting some from the downside, but still exposed. And I don't like this one bit.

What I don't like is on the weekly, we took out the ten week moving average, made nine week highs here with that cycle high. And now we've dropped back into what should have been the sixty day cycle low. That's okay. You can accept a pullback.

But right now, accelerating to the downside at some last sort of couple of critical support levels well below the ten week moving average. Anything on week eleven this far below the ten week moving average is never a good sign, especially when you have the view as I do that the four year cycle is in a declining phase. The chance that this becomes a week nine high is now beginning to increase significantly. So I want to reduce further, ultimately, eighty thousand seven hundred.

I want to be all cash at that point and then wait and see what happens. I know people are afraid to keep reducing positions because they're afraid they're going to miss a big upside move if it comes. I'm at the point now in this cycle where you have to be able to give up upside to protect the downside because we know historically Bitcoin, when it gets into a bad, big selling mode, it can it will drop very fast. And I'm not saying it's gonna happen right here, but if this drops through these levels, then down to straight down to seventy three is a possibility.

Straight down to sixty five is a possibility.

With Bitcoin, sure, it's somewhat limited, but not much. Altcoins, of course, you already know my story there. They're gonna absolutely get destroyed in that type of environment. I'm looking at Solana, which is a good example. Solana is already just taking out those lows from the December cycle low.

Not a good look.

Just sitting almost below key support levels, and this could drop suddenly. That's just a proxy for the rest of the space. So not a good look, unfortunately. Nothing we can do about it.

We've tried to sort of sit and hang in there, give this a chance to counter trend up to a higher level. It's not responding. What I also don't like is the daily chart. Now in theory, looking at this in isolation, I would say this can't be a day three high.

It's just too early, which means this is probably not the cycle low. I have a couple of problems with this, which is why I wanna get very defensive.

Sixty five days is deep in the cycle. This would make this day sixty nine. Yes. You can make an argument that this is a sixty nine day cycle low about the form that's gonna reverse up.

Sure. You can make that argument. However, what I don't like is on the stock market where they're correlated. I covered this in the full report.

Here's the cycle low for Bitcoin.

We had a new high, a new all time high. It's possible that this is a double top, a trap in stocks. Again, it's still early days, right? We don't want to sort of panic as a result.

But this here tells me that Bitcoin also made a cycle low there and that Bitcoin could already have a failed cycle on the sixty day cycle time frame, which means, therefore, the high is probably in. If that's the case, of course, we'll probably bounce, but this is my main concern right now. And whenever you allocate it to any asset, it's always a trade off, right? How much exposure you have to get upside And then more exposure you have for the upside, obviously, goes without saying that you're then exposed to the downside move.

Right now, not a whole lot's going on that I like about this chart. So moving to a quarter percent allocated only, and that's a combination of Bitcoin and Ethereum.

So it's not much exposure. Again, I'm at the point where if this jumps back up, I'm willing to give that up at this point and not be exposed. We're in this sort of sideways movement area. Here's Bitcoin weekly.

Right? Here's this sideways move now, but we're eleven weeks in from a big, big sentiment resetting flush out and weekly cycle low. It's not where you wanna be trading. It's not where you wanna see price action.

And this to to me in a declining phase of a cycle is just not a good look at all. I wish I had better news, guys, but again, different seasons. Think investing as seasons. You've got a summer, you've got a spring, Right?

Your spring's your early cycle. You're getting in early on the ground up. Summer is where the big gains come in. Fall is your harvesting.

We're we're we're past the harvesting point if this plays out as other cycles have. We're in the fall entering into the winter stage, and a lot of people are still kind of hung up on this. Woah. I don't wanna miss the big bull move that comes or the old coins eventually gonna get going.

Of course, anything can happen in any season, but the mindset for me now is that this is not a great environment to be risking a lot.

Great environments come at a certain time. People have been focused on gold and trying to extrapolate the narrative for why gold is doing so well, debasement trade, debt, and so on, and saying, well, Bitcoin has those characteristics. Why isn't Bitcoin going? And today, gold dropped sharply, and here it is.

Bitcoin is down as much. Bitcoin's down as much today as silver is. Silver Bitcoin right now is down something like five point five percent, and silver after having is down three point something percent.

So where's the logic in that? The logic is simply don't get hung up on the narratives and the hope and just face facts on the price action. The price action right now is just horrible, and we have to acknowledge that and be as best immune from that as possible. Wishing you all the best again.

I wish it was better news. It's not right now. Things will get better. Stick with it.

Protect yourself first. The more you protect yourself in these environments, the more we'll have to deploy in the next spring and take advantage of it. Take care.