Hello, Fintech members. Bob Lucas here on the third of January twenty twenty six. I hope you're all doing really well. I wanna wish you all a very happy New Year.

Thanks for being part of this service. It does mean a lot to me. This is the fourteenth year of publishing this weekly and biweekly at some point newsletter. Thank you again for being on the ride.

I have many founding members from the twenty twelve launch. I wanna thank you as well for being part of this journey.

And in this video, I wanna kind of recap twenty twenty five, kind of go over the year itself, and then do a little bit of a snapshot on what I think twenty twenty six might look like and how we could possibly look to prepare for the year ahead.

Firstly, a look back, I mean, general, looking at the monthly charts of all the assets that we follow, S and P five hundred had another great year averaging around seventeen or sixteen percent return for the year.

Tech around twenty or so percent. Been a great run here. Of course, we had that Trump tariff sort of crash, but ultimately that was reversed pretty quickly. And then we ended the year on an eight month straight winning run.

That was phenomenal.

Fully exposed on a core allocation to that move. Of course, the highlight of the year was what we saw in the precious metal market. Big beautiful bull market that we've pretty much been all over since the start of this move.

It's been about two and a half years of really solid gains, but this last year in particular, of course, was significant miners adding around about one hundred and fifty percent, one hundred and sixty percent, I think it was in the year, which is just a phenomenal move.

And of course, silver also had a absolutely phenomenal year. I'll talk about what I think is a head for metals in twenty twenty six in the latter part of this video, but good exposure, overweight exposure to these asset classes really made the difference this year.

And it just highlights that having a diversified portfolio is obviously key, but tweaking the allocations towards what asset classes probably have the best chance in a year is where I think that extra alpha or the extra gains really going to come from. And I think that's going to be more important in twenty twenty six, where I think some of these asset classes are going to look and be in some trouble perhaps. And then across the board, otherwise, crude oil energy, not too bad, around six, seven percent gains on energy.

Bitcoin, of course, was pretty much the disappointment for the year considering it's a third year, the four year cycle. A seven percent negative return for the year didn't really help on that side as well.

So looking at the allocations that we had pretty much for the year. Now this isn't a hundred percent accurate because there were some changes throughout the year, some weighting changes, but it was pretty consistent overall.

But looking at the main bucket allocations, sixteen percent return for the S and P five hundred, twenty point five percent return for the tech focused allocation.

I think in retrospect, the one thing I would have done differently or should have done differently this year is I really should have been overweight both the equity markets and the tech markets. And I was not. I was pretty much core allocated throughout.

That would have added some decent little gains and extra sort of three or four percent for the year being overweight. I really looking back, there was no reason not to be in being such a powerful bull market. And that's something of course we'll look to in the future and making sure that that allocation is better done, but still having a core allocation throughout.

There was a period where we did go underweight equities during this cycle failure, but that didn't hurt at all because we were back to a core position before that even snapped back. So I think that was okay.

Of course, highlight, actually bonds at some point throughout the year did go to underweight. So there was more of a core allocation earlier in the year.

That was pretty much a flat return. This is a zero point eight percent return. It's actually a little bit more than that because it does yield around about four percent.

Really the return there was around four percent for the year on bonds. And then of course the highlight being overweight the entire way through was these SLV position, which is now GLD as of last week's notification. But for the year we were SLV or even platinum, a combination of that. They all returned something very similar. And of course the miners, GDX, one hundred and forty eight percent return for the year.

This Bitcoin spot was seven percent down and then energy actually wasn't that bad. This is including the four percent dividend, fourteen percent return. And then the commodities index, just a three point nine percent return.

The portfolio again, estimated not exactly a hundred percent right, but very close to it returned forty four point nine five percent for a portfolio that is stable, that doesn't make many changes, that is diversified. I think that's an absolutely phenomenal return. S and P five hundred returns sixteen percent for the year. This model portfolio allocation around about a forty five percent return with exposure to a broad range of asset classes right there.

So I'm really happy with that. I think this has been one of the better years in relation to general market indices and hoping to see something similar again in twenty twenty six. So I'm hoping you also participated well in this and let's talk about sort of twenty twenty six, what that might look like and how we may be positioned overall. The first thing I'll say, talking about the S and P five hundred is I will cover the usual daily, weekly kind of monthly look. But before I do, we're looking at it from a long term twenty twenty six perspective. I think we're going to hit some major headwinds in the S and P five hundred. Typically the midterm election year is one of the weakest years of the four year cycle.

The market has a lot of volatility during that year.

And when you look at the S and P five hundred over the last three years, we've seen a twenty four percent return in twenty twenty three.

I think it was a twenty three percent return in twenty four and a sixteen percent return in twenty five.

The market rarely puts in four consecutive green years or strong years. I think the last time it did that was in two thousand and three, two thousand and seven, where it put in a five year return, a five year consecutive return.

It did something similar. I think it was in two thousand, I think in this period here where there was one year that was slightly negative. So there was a four year positive return there. But we are at a point now where historically we're looking for a bad year or a red year in general. That also lines up with the fact that the four year cycle is heading up towards its timing band for a peak. We are now in this cycle sitting on month thirty nine.

Since the bear market low cyclically, the S and P five hundred does show pretty consistent or pretty decent four year cycle views. Of course, there was a period here in two thousand and three-five that didn't really show us that. But historically, as you can see, we get these sort of repetitive patterns. And I do think we have to be cautious looking into twenty twenty six.

But at the same time, we have to respect that the market is in a very powerful uptrend here. And we want to try and continue riding this and let the market shake us out, show us some failed cycles, show us real clear signs that the four year cycle has possibly peaked. And of course, we'll do that via the weekly cycles, looking for a weekly cycle failure to start to go into an underweight position. But for now, I want to maintain more of a bullish posture.

We've had this sort of three month little pause after this sort of six month move that could be setting up for a final leg. Because this final leg in the four year cycle could be really strong, really powerful. And it could be a situation where the first half or the first quarter of this year is where all the gains come from and then the declining phase sets in. So we want to try and take advantage as much as possible of what could be a powerful early portion of twenty twenty six leading into the highs of the four year cycle.

When you look at kind of this trend or channel, there's a possibility that just over a two or three month period, get a final surge up to the top of that channel. And that type of move can also be significant from this point up towards the top of that channel could be sort of another twelve, fifteen percent gain. So that's what we're looking out for at the moment.

And also before we go into more of the daily, weekly cycle analysis, I'm thinking about the service as a whole. If you have any suggestions or ideas, feel free to reply to the email, the automated email that you receive about this post with some ideas that you'd like to possibly see. I do like to balance life style with reporting and the structure of this, but I'm open to listening to any ideas that you have on any changes that could be made to this service. I do have some announcements.

I have been working on an AI agent, a very highly customized AI agent that takes in cycle analysis, cycle theory, and my interpretation of that, looking at videos of the last sort of six, seven years, they've ingested those videos, ingested some of my educational content. And I've done a lot of deep Q and A sessions with an AI agent to learn more about my process. So I'm looking to incorporate that into the service initially where members will have the ability to discuss, to converse with the agent about the videos that get posted, summarize the videos and just ask more in-depth questions. So

that's coming. I'm also focused coming up on allocating more specifically to AI, but not right now. I do think from an AI perspective that it's going to become a bubble that is similar to the dot com era in 1990s. I think we've just gone through the first initial wave of that.

Of course, many of the AI stocks are down significantly. I'm looking for later in the year where we do, I think, come into a four year cycle decline, a bear market, a cyclical bear market, a short duration bear market that washes everything out. And I think that's going to be a very ideal environment or place to start to get aggressive on the tech front. Because I do think from late twenty twenty six, when we get this four year cycle low through to twenty twenty eight and twenty nine, it's going to be a very opportune time to take significant advantage of a generational move.

And I think the AI play is going to be really, really strong and it's going be the driving force of that market. And I want to have a little bit of an AI focused allocation in the portfolio beyond just the tech allocation that we have. I think that's going to be a way to really play the next sort of four year cycle. So that's not just a twenty twenty six move, that's going to come later in the year.

I've also started doing a bit of research and looking into a lot of the industrial metals. I do think commodities are going to be entering into its own cycle. We're already seeing the precious metal complex, palladium, platinum, silver, of course, we know that. But looking at more of the industrial metals, zinc and nickel and copper, and so on, I think those are all very much primed for some significant moves. And I'm looking at starting some allocations in those. We do have a commodities based allocation in the portfolio, of course, which I think would do well. But just like I broke the copper out recently, thinking of creating a bucket that's purely more industrial commodities based allocate maybe ten to fifteen percent of the portfolio to that and look for specific assets that are doing well and trending well, and not just a broad bucket and try and get some more, squeeze some more alpha out of charts or metals that are looking really good from an individual perspective.

So that's going to be coming also sooner. That's something I'm going be looking at in the first quarter of this year. The AI allocation, it would be something waiting in the wings that I want to develop for the model portfolio for when the cycle comes to an end, the four year cycle, which won't be probably until more towards Q3 of this year. So that's what's coming in twenty twenty six.

Looking at the S and P five hundred again, the main thing I see is bull market late stage four year cycle with possibly somewhat of a mini blow off like we often see which could bring us up to the top of that channel late Q1. When you look at the weekly chart we're in the early phase of a new weekly cycle. We are sitting only on week just completed week six, about to enter week seven, just coming off a very powerful long right translated cycle. But again, because we're late in the four year cycle, we often get a very big final cycle.

And at the moment, again, I don't see a reason to be bearish even though a lot of the macro data is kind of iffy. Right? And this market has been somewhat held up by investments and a lot of the AI, Mag seven and so on have been driving this market. But still the market still is broadly doing well. The S and P five hundred obviously just came off a sixteen percent increase.

So again, no reason why I think this should not continue higher. We have now had a number of weeks hitting up against the highs from October. Of course, we did make a new all time high, but it feels as if we're just pushing up against some resistance right here. And once this resistance is broken, then it's kind of clear sky above that. And I think this cycle could run towards a week sixteen, week eighteen high, which gets us all the way into the March time frame. So for now, no other reason nothing but bullish looking chart pattern cycle behavior.

The only time we'd get concerned is if we start to see failed daily cycles. And of course, ultimately, now, the lows that we we what we saw in November is the stop mark. I will not change my allocation unless we trade below that level. If we trade below the weekly cycle low and have a weekly cycle failure, the interpretation of that must be that the four year cycle has now peaked.

So here's the wick that we saw in November. That level right there would get us back to the ten month moving average. But if that was to be breached, it probably wouldn't happen until February. So another February candle below that level probably gets us to the point where the four year cycle was peaked below that ten month moving average.

We had of course a breach of that ten month moving average last year in March, but that was a little bit earlier in the four year cycle. It was narrative driven with the tariffs. It wasn't macro driven, earnings driven.

And I think you couldn't take it more seriously, even though we did reduce exposure on that breakdown there. As you recall, that failed cycle, here's a week six high, something similar to what we had now. So if we have something similar occur right here, this would be a very similar structure where you have the cycle low, the weekly cycle low, and then a breach of that. That's why we would reduce position there because we would then be looking at a process of declining weekly cycles.

And actually, a better analogy or better comparison would be the last four year cycle high right here, where we had the high week thirteen, then we failed right there. That was later in the cycle around week sixteen, and that was a reason to go into an underweight position if we recall. And we stayed underweight all the way through the bear market until some point in the next phase or the next cycle. So that's what we're looking for.

But otherwise, again, I don't like to just be bearish because we're anticipating a failed cycle or a decline in the four year cycle. We wanna try and take as much of the cycle gains as possible. And unless the cycle fails, we make the assumption that we still have upside to go. So early weekly cycle, we can see our indicator crossed recently.

Pretty clean behavior even though this was a long cycle on the weekly time frame. It's still a powerful right translated cycle. The assumption here again is that we're gonna put in another right translated cycle. Then I think the odds if we get a right translated cycle here, we can use maybe this seventeen week cycle as a good sort of guidepost.

If we get something like this, and then we go up to high in sort of the March timeframe, Then by that point, the four year cycle would be on the round about forty two months to a high. And the odds of a four year cycle peak become much, much higher. And then we can get a lot more guarded. Another way to play this in the fuse excuse me, in the future will be in the daily cycle time frame.

So here's the weekly cycle low in November. This is the first daily cycle of this weekly cycle, currently showing us a high on day twenty four. I don't know if that's gonna stick. I would expect probably another high in this current cycle.

Twenty four is early. We're only on day twenty eight or twenty nine, looking for possibly a day thirty three, day thirty four high. That would be my guess if I if I had to say, I think we have one more move up in this cycle, then break the highs that gets everybody excited right here.

Pull back into a normal daily cycle low, and then continue that move up. February, another full right translated daily cycle, peak here in late February, next daily cycle low early March, then a left translated daily cycle into the peak of the weekly cycle. That's a typical standard right translated weekly cycle. So here we have three daily cycles, And on the weekly, that would bring us to around about if we just measure this out, here's your sort of your forty day cycle.

K? And then a left translated cycle high.

Very rough sort of here. Gets us to around about late March, early April time frame for a cycle peak.

So if we go out here, let's just say end of March cycle high. And at that point, that would get us to a week nineteen high.

Again, I'm not saying this is what's gonna happen. What I'm saying is we're in a bull market on the monthly. We're trending higher, looking for a peak in the four year cycle. Therefore, we're looking at a right translated weekly cycle. Nineteen weeks is pretty deep. So some point in March, I think, would be the window.

And at that point, we may even arbitrarily go into an underway position if it can extend all the way to a sort of week nineteen without dropping. But again, there's a risk in that because if you look at this last cycle, it went twenty nine weeks before peaking. If we did an arbitrary sort of rebalancing in anticipation around this period here, then you would have missed that last bit of move there. So that's why sometimes it doesn't play.

Most of the times it doesn't make sense to just take profit because you expect a cycle high. The same thing occurred in the precious metals this year. There were plenty of times when I know many of you felt I got to take profit, I got to take profit. Especially on silver.

If you look at what silver did many times, especially on this first move up towards fifty three, I think a lot of people took profit there because they thought it's so overbought that it's gonna crash. And then of course, ten weeks later, we're up at eighty five dollars Now I did take profit last week or did rebalance into gold because it just got to a point after so many weeks here where I think the odds, the probability that we peaked just became so great that I thought it would made sense to do that there. But the lesson here in general is in general in a bull market, you want to ride these cycles for as long as possible even when they feel as if they're just about the top and turn lower.

Often in a bull market, the surprise continues to come to the upside just like in a bear market when you think it just can't get worse, it can't get worse. And in a true bear market, it does get worse. The same applies in a bull market where looking at things like overbought RSI indicators just don't make sense. They fool you into thinking it's time to get out and the market keeps on going.

So right now on the equity market front, I'm cautious into twenty twenty six, but we have to kind of zoom in a little bit and say, well, yes, be cautious, but we're trending in the right direction. If you look at the last three years, again, besides this big shakeout, it's just been right translated, right translated, right translated, right, right, one left, the shakeout, and now another right. That's what a bull market uptrend is. A tip a typical bull market four year cycle rise is characterized mostly by weekly right translated cycles with the odd curveball thrown in there to shake everybody out.

So my assumption again remains that we probably still have another right translated cycle to come and that by late q one, we begin to get little cautious and defensive. But we'll let the cycle failures tell us that, hey, the market's trend has reversed. And the other thing we have to accept in trend following and investing is that unless you should think for sure that that is the absolute peak of a market and you sell, you really have to wait for a break in the trend and a clear evidence that the trend is now reversed, is going in the opposite direction. And that means giving up a significant piece or portion from the highs to identify that.

So for example, if we were to come up a little bit like this, where do you just get out and say the bull market's over? It's hard to do that because you have to follow the trend. If we get a blow off move, you would miss that altogether. So you'd have to wait for the breakdown, which means you would have to then give up a drawdown on paper from those highs to then say, okay.

Something's changed. The character's changed at this market.

Then we now have to adjust. And you're giving up some of those gains to do that. Ideally, sometimes the market really helps you out here. So for example, if we don't get a move to the highs and this is it, this is a week six high and that this week, next week starts moving lower and does something like this.

That's ideally what you want to see. I mean, you don't want to see that in the sense that you want to be positioned obviously long and capturing gains. But when the market turns, which eventually it always does, you love to see a double top in the weekly timeframe because then you're just giving up very little on paper from a drawdown perspective from those highs because the acknowledgement of a trend change comes sooner. So hopefully when the market does eventually peak, it gives us one of those and makes it so much easier of course to reallocate.

Otherwise twenty twenty six, again, I mentioned, first Q1 I think is the most bullish portion of this. Looking at possibly Q2, Q3, if we come up here because this the four year cycle low is due at the end towards the end of the year.

We're getting closer to that already. So we're only looking at possibly a six or nine month decline. This last four year cycle decline lasted ten months into a bear market low. The one before that, only three.

The one before that, around eight months. So that's typically what you get five months, eight months, ten months. Not talking about anything significant. We also again, we have an environment here with tech and AI.

It's rapid, rapid change, and I think it's very bullish overall. So I think any move down to the four year cycle here could be very short lived, more shakeout, maybe two weekly cycles that are in decline, maybe only maybe only one and the one that fails. So for example, if this was to fail and then form a cycle low around the May, June timeframe, then one more declining cycle. And that could all be it.

That could be it. So we're just looking to we're not looking to get out entirely from a model portfolio perspective. We would go just into an underway position. I don't position.

I don't want to ever not be exposed in this environment to the equity market. It's more about just adjusting, turning a little bit here, having less allocation and then coming into more allocation.

So that's what I think here on the S and P five hundred front. On the gold front, here it gets a little tricky now because again, like I said, bull market. You want to stay invested. You want to go for the ride.

Plenty of opportunities to get out. I know back in April for gold, because gold peaked sooner than here's where silver started outperforming. Gold peaked at here at three thousand four hundred dollars and there was a big case that could be made that you want to go underweight and not be exposed to possibly a big drawdown. It didn't happen.

And what happened instead was we went sideways and then we're up another forty percent. So I mentioned here the return of the year forty four percent. That would have only been possible to that level by sticking to our guns and saying this is a bull market and we want the trend, we want the cycles to tell us to get out versus just saying we made a great run. It's probably topped.

I wanna take profit. So instead of trading or investing on fear, we let the price action dictate whether or not we should be positioned. And this didn't give us any reason at all to get out of position. And even now, we're still comfortably above a rising ten month moving average, even though there's evidence here that perhaps that the metals have topped for some time and could be looking at a bearish twenty twenty six.

It's hard to say because when you look at the year sorry, the eight year cycle on gold, yes, we are significantly overbought. There is a lot of green candles in here and very few red candles. But there's two ways to look at this. The one is, again, it's made all the gains.

We had one hundred and fifty percent gain last year. It's time to take profit and be done with this. But the other argument is, well, what if we get continuation of this? Right?

If we are afraid of losing some paper profit, then we won't be exposed to what could be a very powerful move. When you look at the bull market, now the slope in this is not as high, but when you look at this bull market, there was a big shakeout with the two thousand and eight financial crisis. But otherwise, most of the time it sort of just consolidated gains and then kept on going. Consolidated gains and kept on going. So the lesson there is that we want to give it some room.

We're going to be shaken out at times. We're going to see drawdowns on paper for sure. Even when you look at the minor positions at some point this year, we had some shakeouts. Not major, but we had some pullbacks even recently here from eighty five down to sixty nine.

It was looking there like we're gonna have to reverse a whole position. And then now it went up to ninety one. So we're gonna let these trends unfold and let the market tell us when we possibly wanna get out. But looking at the cycle counts right here, we had a cycle low right here.

Is this the cycle low as I thought? No. I don't think so. But, initially, I did think that, but we bounced off that that period there.

To me, that looks like a mid cycle around ten weeks in. There's the mid cycle. So now we're at a high on week eighteen. I do think it's probably looking at a peak.

But, again, last cycle, it consolidated sideways via time. So is this gonna be doing kind of this and then resume the uptrend? So I wanna remain overweight even though we have to have an expectation of possibly seeing a drawdown over the next sort of six or eight weeks here because we've had such a great run. I think silver is extremely, extremely extended.

And if we are heading into a gold weekly cycle declining phase right here, then it stands to reason that silver is probably gonna reach, sorry about that, is probably gonna retrace back towards a ten week, maybe even more than that. So seeing it down around ten dollars back to the sixties or so over the next couple of months, I wouldn't be all that surprised, which again is reason why I decided that I didn't want to lose my overweight allocation to the miners here, but changing the metal component to GLD for now. Doesn't mean it'll perform better, it should not suffer the same amount of drawdown if we see silver drop from this level towards a sixty dollars range.

And of course, from the peak up here, it's more of a thirty percent decline. So just rebalancing a little bit there, but staying overweight the market. Now, of course, GDX would probably retrace all the way back to this sixty dollars seventy dollars level as well. So there's possibly a drawdown coming, but again, I think it's going to be hard to time and I don't want to have the portfolio sort getting in and out, in and out trying to avoid ten percent and twenty percent declines.

I think it's just better off holding through the period and acknowledging that this is just a very powerful bull market. And I just don't see a reason why it should necessarily decline. Now from the eight year cycle perspective, it could also be peaking for the first half of this cycle. So we could see a multi month decline and be aware of that.

But again, I think this bull market has a long way to go. I think it's gonna carry us all the way in towards the end of the decade. I think we're in a major expansive move like we saw back in two thousand, all the way to twenty eleven. That was an eleven year period.

And just looking at it from a time perspective, right? Not price performance, just time perspective, that bull market went all the way up. And something similar would get us all the way to two thousand and thirty three. We're early in this move.

Now as you can see, it's outperformed that period, which is why at some point we're going to see long sideways moves in the metals and probably also significant declines. We're going to have to accept those in being able to hold positions throughout this bull market.

Daily for is there anything here to show you?

So here's the the daily. We also had this long period right here where we don't know if that's just a couple of cycle. I think it's a couple of daily cycles like we saw right here. It's been a powerful move.

But again, I think we're in this declining phase now. Clearly, there's a cycle high right here, but the problem with this is it's one another long cycle, forty one weeks like this was forty two weeks. I think we have one, two, three, four dailies. I think now we're into a declining phase, which is I think why we could possibly see a seven, eight, ten percent decline back down to this level, then maybe even a consolidating weekly cycle.

So yes, we've had some great gains, but when you look at the monthly, a lot of green candles in here. We could be due a number of red candles just to let things catch up, let sentiment cool off, let there be a rotation out of metals into other asset classes, and then begin once more.

Quick look at the dollar. So here's the monthly on the dollar. I think this is broken down. It's holding this level right now, but it, to me, indicates that there's gonna be another move lower.

This, of course, is the monthly six months at this point, Ten month moving lower. I think, ultimately, we're heading down to this lower level, low ninety on the index, maybe below that. Probably find some big support in this area towards the low the lower point there. Here it is on the weekly.

We're now still in the declining phase, but getting closer to the weekly cycle low. We're now sitting on week fifteen. Weekly cycles typically, although the last couple were longer, and historically, they've been a lot more consistent around that week eighteen to week twenty mark. So I think over the next three or four weeks, we're heading lower.

It may even hold that last weekly cycle lower and not fail just yet and probably fail in the next cycle. Crude oil, again, this has been difficult to trade. It has been showing us a lot of left translated cycles. We haven't had a double digit high in the weekly cycle count since April twenty four, but I don't see a big catalyst, to be honest with you, for higher crude oil prices.

We just invaded Venezuela. They're looking at getting Venezuelan oil.

A lot of the Russia obviously has to continue to pump in the black market and so on.

OPEC nations, they're piling on some debt themselves.

And I think they need to keep on pumping. Everyone needs to keep on pumping. They need that oil revenue, a lot of supply in the market and I think oil prices remain in this sort of range right here. But the energy ETF still does looking this is a good looking chart, and this gives a three point seven percent yield.

So playing energy via this ETF hasn't been that bad, and I think this can break out to the upside. Certainly, if we get any type of surprise move on crude here, if we can trade back up, which is I think realistic that even though I'm saying there's a lot of supply and I think prices will remain depressed, I still think we can possibly at some point get back up and trade sort of in this range. It's a big difference for energy producers where crude's trading around about seventy dollars to eighty dollars a barrel versus fifty dollars a barrel. So the energy ETF can still do well, I think, going forward.

And then what else do we have? We're looking at some other industrial some other metals here. Platinum, big spike up here, given some back. That's the nature of this.

I still think platinum, I'm not as bullish on. I'm bullish on it, but I think there are gonna be better choices out there. And I say that because when you look at platinum right here, it's already made a big all time high, taking out the highs from o eight. What I don't like about this is I wanted something more sustainable.

This is a massive move. Now I pointed this out to members last year and suggested that this could be a good allocation as well versus silver or combination of that. And anybody that kinda jumped in on that also had a massive run. Problem is I don't like big spiky moves like this.

I think it can retrace significantly. Also, it's made another all time high. I've talked a lot about palladium. I do have this as an in an ETF.

And this is more this is more of a nice sustained move and still well below its all time high level. Still no seventy seven percent before getting up to the high. It's looking more like this nice sustained move that we saw in the past.

So I think it can come up. I I I do feel that a good position small position to palladium is gonna work out well in here in the future. And, again, this is something I'm gonna cover. Although palladium, it's more of an industrial metal. It's not really part of the precious metal family like platinum is. Even though platinum does have obviously industrial use, palladium is more of an industrial use, and I think this fits that bucket I was talking about before. So I like this allocation.

Copper is something I've talked about. Copper miners. I love this chart. Of course, a little bit overbought, but I do think copper miners are gonna do well over time. Of course, be prepared for good volatility in these. Right?

All these commodities have volatility. A twenty percent drawdown back to the ten month moving average is something that could happen. Overall though, I like this breakout. I like copper in an AI data center world, in a world that's moving digital. Everything runs on copper wiring. And here is copper itself.

So copper peaked back here o six, o eight, eleven, and so in this sort of four, five range, again, back in twenty twenty, twenty one. Now it seems like it's breaking out, and I can see a situation over the next sort of five years along with an AI bubble or an AI boom that copper trades seven, eight, nine dollars. And that would be very significant for the copper miners. So you could also play this via copper ETF if you wanted some just metal exposure. But I like the miners overall, even though again they've already had a big run so far. Don't forget things in a bull market like this, they can really really surprise and just keep on going.

So I can see a situation where copper miners are trading much, much higher over the next year, two and three years.

Lastly, looking at Bitcoin. I don't like the Bitcoin chart, as you know.

And we did go into more of a core allocation. In my opinion this four year cycle has peaked and it has diverged from the risk assets and equity markets. Now of course it certainly drew a counter trend move. I can see it jumping back up to one hundred, one hundred and three, one hundred and five over the next few months, especially if the equity markets go on a blow off move or a significant move to a top. This could and probably should follow to some extent.

But overall, it really feels as if this four year cycle has certainly peaked, that we're already in a declining phase, and any moves higher from this point here are gonna be counter trending. I don't think I allocation too much. Although if we do get back up to the hundred, hundred and three, hundred and five level, then what we'll look to do is go into an underweight allocation on Bitcoin here. But again, I only wanna really do that on a big counter trend move back up.

So Bitcoin right here on the monthly. Again, now the third month two full months below that ten month moving average diverge from equities where it does historically trade like a risk asset. Why has it done that? That's weakness that we can't ignore.

It also was a good year for crypto and Bitcoin in general. A lot of regulatory changes, SEC, the ETF, and a lot of the asset backed strategies that have been buying a lot. With all that bullish news, fundamental changes, the narrative and for it to underperform, I think is telling. And I think we want to be very cautious here on Bitcoin.

I don't think anybody should be overweight this market right now.

It's also could be a situation where if it decoupled sooner than the equity markets and has been diverging that it's the first to find a four year cycle low. So it could be looking potentially at an early four year cycle low. This is showing an early four year cycle low. It's scheduled really around about the October time frame to end, but it could certainly come sooner.

So that is a wrap for this first video of twenty twenty six. Happy New Year. Wishing you all the best. And some good change, I think, coming twenty twenty six.

I think it's going be a more of a turbulent year. I don't think it's going to be an easy year like it was the last three years. And we want to make sure that we one, participate in upside, but two, protect ourselves possibly more in Q2 to Q3, Q4 timeframe of this year by looking at going into underweight positions if these cycles unfold like I think they probably will. All the best, everybody.

Take care.