Good morning, Beckhorn Live. Bob Lucas, Thursday morning with a quick midweek update here. So we've got this decline that we've seen now really confirming that this is the declining phase of this sixty day cycle. Fifty four day high, right translated, that in theory is good. But if you look at what it's done over that period, not a whole lot considering we had a pretty significant decline over a couple of months into a big weekly cycle low.

So it hasn't been an impressive cycle, sixty day cycle time frame, even though it has been right translated.

But the good news we hope here is that we're coming down into this sixty day cycle low. Currently the low yesterday at day sixty one. So we're in the window. We're comfortably in that window. However, what I will warn you against is that often cycle lows don't form in the very first decline down. In a strong bull market, yes, where it just doesn't want to decline any further, wants to shake out and go.

In a lackluster market like this typically you see two moves or even three moves down to a low. So be aware here that I think we may still have some more downside to come, maybe just one or two days worth, possibly here's the mid cycle kind of cluster right there at eighty six thousand five Then you've got these two lows back here, eighty four thousand. Now that's another four thousand or so, but it's only around five percent for Bitcoin. It can do that in a wick and reverse.

Those are levels I think we can hit over the next few days into a cycle low. Otherwise, we're just waiting for this to turn and form a swing. Right now, the swing level is pretty easy to achieve. It's yesterday's high, which is only ninety thousand five hundred.

A green or daily close above that creates a swing. It doesn't confirm a cycle low, but gets us a lot closer, of course. And then ultimately, the ten day, if we can form that swing and then close above the ten day, which within a couple of days would be only around about ninety two zero then we can say that we probably have a new sixty day cycle in play and then hopefully we can get a nice right translated cycle that follows this one.

However, when you look at the weekly, it's still not very impressive action. If you look at how bull markets behave in general, these weekly cycle declines are reversed relatively quickly. The first six or seven weeks in a bull market of a new weekly cycle are typically very strong. You see sharp snapbacks at least up to where the last sort of capitulation occurs or the last sort of breakdown.

In this case around about one hundred and seven-one hundred and five. Typically you get at least back to that level relatively quickly in a new weekly cycle as you can see from the last cycle, cycle before that. Pretty much in every bull market you sort of see these sharp moves back. We're not seeing that and I think that speaks to where we stand overall in the four year cycle.

The relative weakness to equity markets is really hard to ignore as well.

But that said, still I think in a declining phase of the four year cycle you should see some sentiment restoring period, a calitre move that gets everybody kind of excited again before the meat of the bear market decline kicks in. So for now we still have a bullish ten short term or even intermediate term into this February time frame, late February time frame perhaps around the week twelve mark in this cycle.

I think that would also correspond and also is pretty dependent at this point because don't forget Bitcoin and crypto as a whole is acting really weak. So we need other risk assets to also join the party or continue on. So here's the S and P five hundred also about or hopefully closing its own daily cycle, which is equivalent to a sixty day cycle and then continuation in this. So we're looking for an extension now into all time highs in the equity markets. Hopefully that's the low right there. As you can see also a daily cycle low and then a push through all time highs and continuation of this bull market trend would help to lift bitcoin and provide at least some support.

And I think again this is where we get up to this higher level in this current weekly cycle before equities sort of top out.

That remains a default view. On the downside again we're just watching these levels. I think eighty six is still potential even low as eighty four thousand right there, lower level that we're seeing during this cycle. We shouldn't trade below eighty four here as well.

We should be holding at least all those mid cycle level points and those wicks down in this. And then we can reverse here if this hasn't already formed the cycle low and then hopefully make this run up to this higher number here where again I maintain I think this cycle is gonna stall out this weekly cycle that becomes a counter trend move. Then we're already into probably March by that point and then we're only a number of months away from potentially the next big four year cycle low. But that last four to six months in the cycle, of course, is where most of the damage is typically done.

So right now, yes, we're focusing on the next four to six weeks perhaps being still bullish.

Unless we take out this eighty four level we get worried there. Ultimately though we still need to see a weekly cycle failure before we can call this a four year cycle top so more definitively and right now the last weekly cycle is back at eighty thousand. Anything below eighty thousand for me is full confirmation that the four year cycle has indeed peaked even though I strongly believe it has already.

Below that level, you wanna be watching out. So right now, I don't think the weekly cycle high is in, although we have a candidate, a pretty good candidate on week eight, a left translated cycle going up eight weeks. That's a strong candidate in the bear market. So that is now a question mark on whether that is the high of the weekly cycle.

But again, we want to see what we can get out of risk assets in general. The S and P five hundred can move higher and then get Bitcoin up to, say, about the one hundred seven level. And if we can get to that point of the number next number of weeks, then we'll decide on how to approach that, possibly reducing positions as well.

Waiting for on the daily time frame confirmation of a sixty day cycle and then we can see how this can go up from that point. Otherwise on the altcoin front again same dominance pretty much flat. Alt's pretty looking looking as if there's really no bid, and Ethereum also not looking as healthy as well. Kind of mirroring Bitcoin pretty well here.

So there's nothing no sort of capital flowing into any of these alts ahead of a potential big move in crypto or Bitcoin as a whole. That's not a good sign for where we stand right now. So yes, I'm cautious overall. I do still believe in the intermediate time frame, we can get one more good extension higher.

But again, if this is the bear market phase of the four year cycle, you don't want to get sort of hung up or have too much bias on any short or intermediate term upside move. Because it is, by definition or by nature, a countertrend move. And those can stall and fail at any given time. So we want to see this level stick and hold.

We want to see a move up to this level. I think that's where you get really defensive at that point on a high versus worrying about stopping or getting to a certain trigger where you say okay I've got to start reducing. It's always better to go out on your own terms or on a high there but we'll have to just take advantage of any opportunity up there and just watch that downside here. Wish it was better news overall but it's just not.

That's the reality of investing and trading with certain periods where it's all excitement or bulls and things go up and this is just visually as well striking. This is a weekly chart. It's striking just how weak this action is overall. So that's the update.

Wishing you all the best. I'll have another update on Saturday morning. Take care.