Good morning, Bitcoin Life. Bob Lucas, Thursday morning.

Not so much with an update, a little bit of a different video today. I wanna talk more about kind of framing mindset in changing environments because, for three years, even though the last bull market didn't, at least towards the end in twenty twenty five, didn't achieve or didn't deliver what we were all hopeful. We had a hope for a big blow off move, which never came. And ever since the peak in November, completely diverged from the rest of the market. So it's been very, very bearish action. But still, we were in a very bullish mindset throughout the rising portion of the four year cycle. And now suddenly, and it happens quickly, we're now in this really, I think, bear market declining four year cycle period.

But our minds don't adapt fast enough or quick enough into that changing reality that we're in. I know we're all more bearish now, and hopefully, you're mostly in cash or completely in cash or some combination of that and protecting yourself more than anything else. But it's hard to sort of transition completely to kind of what a bear market environment typically looks like because we still have those hopes and you still see a lot of social media about, hey, you know, this is it. The the the PMI and and other indicators are about to turn, and the market's gonna surprise everybody like it did in April and so on and so on. And you wanna believe those or you're afraid that they may be right.

So you kind of you play in between and you get chopped to pieces and so on. For me, right now, this is a clear bear market. There's no dispute about that.

And for me to entertain these ideas that this is it, we're just bottomed out, and we're gonna continue this big bull market goes against everything that I know and everything that I follow. That doesn't mean anything I know and that I follow is going to be right.

But when you have a skill set or a strategy and it's following that strategy, then I would be crazy to entertain other ideas at this point unless the market says, hey, at this level, you're you're kinda not right anymore. But but the the current levels, I am in my thought and in my strategy. So I follow that. So what this is telling me is that this is now the fifth consecutive month, and we're halfway through the month. So there's still plenty of time for this candle that we're in a declining phase. As you can see, pretty much lower highs, lower lows all the way through, well below the ten month moving average, below the twenty, the ten months in a cross below a twenty. Look at prior cycles from the peak around twelve months to a low, twelve months to a low.

So this is mirroring all those. Now you can argue, and and if and I think the bulls are doing this right now. They're arguing that, well, we didn't get a blow off move. We didn't get this euphoric kind of peak.

Therefore, you kind of ignore all of what you're seeing right now. And I think that's very lazy in general, and I don't think we saw a euphoric kind of peak back in December of twenty one. We saw something to that effect in October twenty twenty, but there was also a very big COVID move, and and liquidity was just insane, the amount of spending and checks that were being sent to people. And even that wasn't necessarily majorly euphoric.

So to say that this cycle didn't deliver on that, I'm not sure if I buy that. This cycle in twenty twenty one, twenty twenty, it wasn't that dissimilar to what we saw here.

The high back in twenty seventeen was at twenty thousand. Sure, it's like a two or 3x above that, but the market caps are a different story. So my point simply is that right now, I am just in this I don't care about counter trend moves so much. If I can take advantage of one, I will try, and that would be great.

But at the moment, I'm just more concerned about what is the potential downside. Now, yes, RSI, look at the weekly that people are kinda talking a lot about this now, one of the lowest levels ever. Sure. Okay.

That probably that's important. Right? We're oversold significantly. There's no doubt.

But to me, all that means is that we're very likely due a really strong balance to kinda negate that, to to kinda get back into more of a neutral position. And that's because for me, it doesn't signal a major bottom because we're getting this sort of drop earlier in the declining phase. For me, bear market declines across every asset class don't end up at just one straight shut down into a four month low.

Buy the dip bull market declines do that. So in a big surge up or a big uptrend, a move like this could trigger would be a massive buy the dip opportunity. In a bear market, typically, this is the first realization of a decline. Yes, you get a big counter trend move that develops.

But ultimately, it's more about time for this to unfold into the eventual bear market low. So when I see those RSI levels at those points, I think, yeah, we're oversold. But in the bear market decline, low RSI values are mostly a trap for people to kind of think that, you know, this contrarian trap that they're waiting to pick that bottom or that reversal. And that doesn't work so well normally.

It's the same when you look at the greed fear index. Those don't really work well when they're going in the direction of the trend. So when you're in a downtrend, seeing very low RSI levels or really oversold levels doesn't tell us a whole lot. Same with the bull market uptrend when we're you know, the the the bull index is high and the RSI is high.

You see those pegged for a long time. Look at these levels up here as an example.

They can stay in that range for a long period of time. I also don't like cherry picking two or three prior bottoms where the RSI hit that level and saying, well, it has to do it again. That is a common common trap I've been seeing for decades where people think, okay. It's hit that level, and therefore, it's gonna it's gonna it's gonna bounce, and that's the bear market bottom.

Even the RSI in June twenty twenty two, which is actually lower than what we're seeing right here. If you look at where that corresponds, it corresponds with this big decline. Yes. But here's my point.

For nine weeks after that, yes, it's up around fifteen percent or so, But the bear market lows eventually didn't come from that level for another kind of twenty odd weeks. Right? So it's a process is is what I'm getting at. And at this point in the bear market cycle, I've avoided a good amount of the decline.

But I also want to avoid the possibility that we're going to hit a forty thousand print or maybe even a thirty thousand print. Because, again, I don't I don't necessarily believe that's what's gonna happen, but I'm looking at the history of what Bitcoin's done. And the last cycle gave us a full retracement of seventy seven percent. Yes.

The declines in the bear markets, and there's only three as an example, have been getting lower.

And in this one, we can maybe expect the same kind of thing where we're not seeing as deep of a decline.

But at the same time, I don't know that. I don't know if seventy seven maybe we get worse than seventy seven. I don't know that.

Everyone's in a rush to kind of pick a bottom and to be positioned for their next big move above one hundred thousand, one hundred and fifty thousand, two hundred thousand, ignoring the fact that we're in a bear market right now and there's downside risk.

So I think at some point, we're gonna get a good one month or two month, probably six to eight week rally, and it could be sharp. It's gonna get everybody excited again. We're overdue that. Here's the five red candles. We haven't really seen five red monthly candles. Monthly candles. I think there's one example of it somewhere not even back in fourteen.

One, two, three, four. Here it is here, the the two thousand and eighteen decline. So it's pretty rare, and it's rare in general. Right?

Five straight months down is a lot. So we're probably gonna get interrupted this pattern down. And just like I point out often around the sixty day cycle declines where where the first big dip is often not the lows that you get a sort of a counter trend move, short, of course, on the daily, then it comes back and makes a lower low and then possibly a third time as well. I think that's how this plays out.

So, yes, probably for now, the sixty one thousand lows that we touched last week are in. Right? And we're probably gonna get above seventy two and mark some type of enthusiastic rally that comes out of this. And in looking at this, the twenty month moving average up at ninety thousand, the ten month, I'm talking next month around ninety six. These are still some pretty big targets up there that we can possibly hit in the next couple of months, which to me don't change the bear market structure that we're in, are perfectly within how a bear market decline would operate. And I wanna focus more on the fact that until this bear market is completely washed out and we're in the timing band for those lows, I'm not gonna get super excited about those. Again, like I mentioned, I wanna try and take advantage of those, and I'll cover that shortly on the daily.

But right now, it's all about protecting capital as much as possible, protecting the gains of the last cycle, right, and getting ready mentally for starting to get back in, start buying back in, and eventually buy as much as we can at Lowe's because what has served us well in prior cycles and every cycle is yes. How you play the cycle is very important. There's no doubt. But the the the cushion of getting in super early of a big bull market move sort of saves you from a lot of the mistakes that you will ultimately make.

We all make them. I make them during that bull market phase. Getting a low entry, a low average price in is, I think, the the the best way to to compound gains over multiple cycles and to perform well over a cycle. A lot of people, they get washed out from the prior bear market, especially a lot of the bulls that are still out there would have hope.

Their hope gets crushed when they finally wake up and realize at those bear market lows. For us, however, we're already conditioned for that. So we're in the mindset of opportunity at that at that final capitulation versus most of the people that have that sort of bias and faith. They're only finally waking up and realizing, oh, this is a bear market.

It's kind of a little too late by that point, and they're making those decisions to sell at that point because they finally have given up, whereas we're in a position to then take advantage of that opportunity. So I think, again, just to recap here, looking at the weekly, right, again, yes, certainly oversold. I wanna point out for people who are wanting to add more to their huddle position, of a a time frame of five to ten years, maybe something you're looking for for retirement or next the next decade or something to pass on to your kids or whatever the case may be. And I have a position like that, and I'm looking to add more to that now.

Right? These are attractive levels. Sixty something thousand isn't horrible. I think we're gonna get lower.

At the moment, this me.

This decline is Apologize for the interruption. This decline is fifty percent. So we're in that sort of range where you look at the last cycle decline and at seventy seven percent, you think is fifty percent enough? Personally, I don't think so.

Also, I want to point out that structurally, this market is extremely weak. Equities continue to push those all time high levels, metals, AI, tech, materials, all the sectors. They're doing really, really well.

And Bitcoin has the fundamentals to do really, really well, and it's down fifty percent. That to me is screaming. That doesn't seem that doesn't sound like opportunity to me right now. That's telling me that structurally, there's something really wrong here, that it's doing that in the face of such great fundamentals.

So I don't think fifty percent is enough, but I do think at that sixty thousand level where it kinda tagged the other day or last week, that that's that's a good place to be adding in. That's around fifty two percent, fifty one percent off those highs. If you have that time frame of of really long buying there is good. Just be aware though, if you really make a decision to buy for say a huddle, it's a huddle.

Don't panic it when it's at forty five thousand or if it gets to thirty eight thousand and so on. You're not gonna second guess a huddle position. Respect the time frame that you make a decision on and own it and live with it. So that's why you make a decision based on the right position that you wanna add knowing that you're not gonna touch it for a long period of time.

For me though, again, when you look at the prior cycles and I believe this eighteen decline was an eighty five percent decline, the one before that around ninety percent, then seventy seven, just using a kind of back of envelope diminishing decline kind of idea. Seventy seven now maybe we're talking about sixty six again, right, just throwing out round sort of numbers. Sixty six gets us to around forty two. So there's still a big difference between tagging sixty thousand and forty two.

That is and that's on a diminishing decline perspective. If we match the last cycle, seventy seven percent decline, now we're talking twenty eight thousand. Now some of you or many of you right now just heard me say that and and and were probably thinking, you're so full of it. You don't know what you're talking about.

There's no way you can do that. Well, I agree. It's probably not it's not a default case. It's not highly likely.

But to think that it's not possible is is is is really where I think people make the mistakes in general, where they think that the worst case is is not a possibility. People get washed out. They borrow against their Bitcoin thinking that they have a very safe sort of leverage level, and then they get liquidated. I'm not talking about fugitives. I'm talking about people who just lend their Bitcoin. People have done that.

That's how these markets wash everybody out.

How do you get to something like that? Well, okay. Well, here's a scenario. Let's go and look at the S and P five hundred, okay?

So we haven't seen a four year cycle decline yet. We haven't seen a peak just yet, Okay? So I think this is setting up well for yet another move up, which does support a counter trend move for Bitcoin. But what if we get the overdue four year cycle decline?

The last four year cycle decline, which of course overlaps perfectly with the Bitcoin four year cycle decline, went ten months down. So what if starting next month the S and P five hundred begins a ten month decline.

Is that normal cyclical bear market decline?

What is that going to mean for risk assets in general?

What is going to happen to bitcoin in a case like that when it's been performing so poorly versus the equity markets and here is a major shakeout in the equity markets, AI stocks get hammered and margin calls coming across the place. What happens in this environment if that was to happen, which is not an idea that doesn't have a lot of sort of plausible potential right here, given what we're seeing and what we've seen over this four year cycle. So my point is I'm at that point in the cycle where I'm giving up upside if we get big moves because I know that our portfolio can get really, really smashed if it's overexposed in a move like this.

Okay? And a move like that gets you all the way back to just the fourth month into the four year cycle, and that can be horrendous. Now, yes, you can round trip it and hope that we come out of it, and then the next cycle is gonna get back to all time highs. But that's a massive opportunity loss that you have because being able to buy back at a lower price and and look, let's be honest.

If it gets down to twenty eight, I'm probably gonna be more from a huddle perspective, I would have bought back as much as I wanted at a higher price. From a four year cycle strategy, I would have bought back at a higher price as well.

And that's okay, right? But from an active position, we'll try and take advantage of any scenario like that as much as possible. So I wanted to talk about this today because I think, again, it's important to understand that there's a time and a place for certain types of views on the market and how we allocate. And we're in a different one right now.

So a view at the intermediate time frame, look, from what I can see, clearly, we are now in week twelve. Any idea that this was one cycle from April, which a lot of Elliot Wave people wanted to tell you, and now they're moving the goalposts of notice as well because they were talking about the April lows and not the the November lows were important. I saw saw that online a bit. The April lows have now been taken out, and I've seen other interpretations now suddenly.

There is no other interpretation. The April lows have been smashed.

The November lows have been smashed. The monthly is in a bear market decline. That's it. Accept it.

That's what the market has given us. How we performed in the cycle before is is now water under the bridge. We look at it and try and learn from things we could have done differently, and there's always things we could have. But right now, this is what we're dealing with.

And for me here, this weekly cycle still has some time around until the April timeframe but oversold. So what I think here is we're going to get a bounce. The bounce probably takes us to a minimum of eighty thousand, which is an important weekly cycle low level, which could act as resistance.

That's not a big opportunity. Taking a move from here to eighty is not exciting. It's not worth the risk. Where I think we can get up to is a double tag of the weekly cycle highs.

That gets every bull super excited again. And the ninety thousand print is a massive counter trend move.

And, yeah, the calls for for the super cycle back on, whatever you wanna call it, the bull market will be very loud, and I think that would be a perfect trap. So I think here we've got a move back up to eighty, possibly around ninety seven. On the monthly, as I mentioned, the twenty month moving average is around ninety, and the declining now ten month moving average next month, which is where that rally would probably take you to is or will be at around about ninety five thousand. That ten month moving average right there, you're not going to exceed or certainly close a monthly candle above that in a bear market.

So right now right? Because I always wanna ask that question. Oh, Bob, you sound very confident on this outlook, but you there's a chance you could be wrong. Right?

Of course.

And I think where I'm gonna be wrong and where I start to say, hang on.

Shake, you know, shake all those thoughts. Something's going on here. That's when I wake up and change my whole outlook is if we get back above kind of that ninety.

Well, by next month, it'll be, like I said, around about that ninety five, ninety seven level.

And that, of course, is this ninety eight candle right here as well. So, yeah, a weekly close above that week nine high when we're only on week thirteen is a whole different look. It's a very unusual look because this cycle has peaked on week nine, has failed, and failing means we got below the weekly cycle low, has failed on week eleven, now it's week thirteen. For this to come up on week fifteen, sixteen or seventeen and make a new high, that's a very unusual signal with a failed cycle and then a new high on the right side, the right side of the middle being right translated. A right translated weekly cycle with a big failed component is very unusual and I would want to then pay real good attention to what might be going on at that point.

So looking for opportunity, I pointed out in the alert yesterday. Here we are here. Big capitulation, but no big v shaped rebound. We had the one candle, which makes sense. It's a slingshot.

And then three, four days trying to get above seventy two, haven't seen any of that. This is not looking like a v shaped recovery. Now we have a low yesterday around about sixty five. If we can recover here and get back above seventy two, then I think we can get some exposure back.

And then sixty five, if that holds, is the stop point and not the fifty nine thousand, right? Because at this point, after such a massive sell off and this bounce back, it should just go pretty sharply back up to eighty at a minimum. And then we see what it wants to give us, right? So this is where you could arbitrarily get in right now, but it doesn't make any sense.

We're in the midst of a massive decline. We haven't even taken out the ten day moving average. So adding right now an anticipation that we can make this counter move doesn't make sense. We can still test those bottoms, The bottom right there, make kind of a double bottom.

We can even make a lower low before moving back up, or we can keep going down and keeps slicing all the way through. This is why right now, I'm not necessarily worried about a big move up, but I would wanna get some exposure back above seventy two. If you look at this weekly candle last week here, we've got a high of seventy eight. This one here, closing the the week and new highs, seventy two.

We're starting to get a little more constructive. It's not a super great chart, to be honest with you. There's nothing stopping this really from getting back above seventy threes briefly and then kinda continue that move as well. But, yeah, it it feels as if when you're looking at the weekly and the monthly that we're gonna be due this over trend counter trend move, and it could be as high as maybe ninety seven, and that's a pretty substantial move. Even from seventy two up to here is a pretty substantial range, and I would want some exposure back. So right now in closing, my strategy is look for a daily close kind of above seventy two.

A close may end up being around seventy four by that time and probably get like a third of a position back to have some exposure, and then I would use the sixty five thousand level as a stop point.

Is it great? It's not the best setup, but you want to have some exposure in that type of environment because it becomes difficult to then manage not having a position, especially if we make it all the way to eighty, then start pushing into eighty five, eighty seven. What happens to the psychology there? You start to listen to what everyone's saying online, the bull market's back, you don't have a position and there's a good chance that you'll buy the next top because you can't handle that anymore and then the bear market resumes. Having a position of some type to take advantage of that just comforts or cushions us or at least puts those emotions and thoughts to the side as it's making a move up. And then if it does make a big move up into the 90s, then I think what you do is you start looking to sell it and sort of get ready for the declining phase.

Again, not until we get back above those highs for this weekly cycle do I even entertain the idea that the that the that the four year cycle is over, that we're in a new cycle, or whatever you wanna call it at that point.

So with that, I hope that's been helpful. I'm trying to mix up kind of the the delivery of content and not make it just about the price action and charts because ultimately, we all see the same charts. We see the same patterns, But it's the execution of what we're seeing that often is where we're lacking and we don't make the best decisions. So yeah, everyone can draw charts. Everyone can see very similar things.

It's the interpretation of those and the actionable events around those that are important. Thank you very much. All the best.