Good morning, Fintech members. Bob Lucas, Saturday morning with a full report. Got a lot to cover today, some changes in the precious metal allocations and some reworking of portfolio. Just trying to get it more detailed and more granular, as I've mentioned in the past. I'll cover this towards the end of the video, so I'll come back to it.

Add some additions to the portfolio to discuss and some changes that I want to cover. First of all, S and P five hundred, it looks to me like we might be on day three of this daily cycle. It's not confirmed just yet. We do have a swing low on day thirty eight.

Thirty eight is a good candidate for a daily cycle low. A pretty nice right translated cycle. What I like about this is of course it's the first daily cycle and we managed to get above the prior cycle high, all time high levels in the first daily cycle. That's kind of what you want to see.

That first daily cycle recovers the prior high, makes a new high and pulls back and prepares for the next phase of the cycle. So this overall is still fairly bullish in my opinion.

We have some higher lows, some higher highs. Day thirty three which is a firmly right translated cycle.

And yeah that's just the typical bull market kind of behavior that you would expect.

Now it's not confirmed yet that we have a cycle low in place. There's still room for sort of one more move down, take out that low and really complete the cycle. But at the same time in a bull market, you don't want to lean too heavy on another lower low. It doesn't often come.

Really in a really bullish environment near the end of a four year cycle, that's probably going to be it. If you look in the past, this bull market, most of these daily cycle lows, as you can see, just one move down to a cycle low, a little bit of a shakeout and then go again. So that could be enough. We did exceed the ten day moving average briefly intraday on Thursday and Friday. Didn't close above that.

I think now a close above a ten day moving average would pretty much confirm that the new cycle, new daily cycle is in. On the weekly timeframe, all looks really, really nice. A nice bull market trend.

Week I think it's nine now. Here it is. Just closed week nine beginning week ten. So now we're at the point in the weekly cycle in a bull market uptrend where again we've seen the cycle low. That's the sentiment clearing event after a beautiful thirty one week cycle.

And now we have so this little pullback back to the ten week, exceeding the ten week briefly a couple times in this cycle.

So everything here is primed and ready to go for a continuation. There's really no excuse right now for this bull market to not continue higher and a new daily cycle sets that up in the coming few weeks.

And again, in theory, this cycle, this daily cycle should be another right translated cycle getting us through to early March. That puts or gives us a number of good weeks ahead from here to early March. We're looking at sort of the week of the ninth and that is week sixteen. So yeah, we really have from this point or starting next week probably a good six weeks ahead of us or we should if this follows a bull market script.

Everything is set. We've got the pullback here, and we should be ready to keep on going. Again, of course, one more move down is still in the cards. I don't think that's necessarily bearish getting down to this level here.

But then we would want to see the new cycle take hold, take control, and then we start moving higher once more. We want to put this cycle behind us. It'd be nice if that thirty eight day low holds, If we can get a move up in the coming week and make a new all time high, we can confirm that that first daily cycle is in here on twentieth of January. We can move our lines up right here.

And then that instead of the current daily cycle low or and the weekly cycle low back in November, this first daily cycle becomes a significant marker for where we would want to become defensive once more. I've also mentioned traders. I think you can be long here. You want to give it some room.

That's why this line was back here. So it does give you some wiggle room to the downside here. But again, I still think this is a good setup in a second daily cycle low for that move, as I mentioned, to around sort of a day thirty three or four high, early March, and looking for kind of another repeat cycle where we can get up to some decent numbers and offer a reasonably good trade in the second daily cycle. The good thing about this is you're trading with a new daily cycle, You're trading with a weekly cycle that is still almost in the mid phase or the midpoint of the cycle, but with a powerful bull market trend behind you.

So it sets up really well overall. So green lights I think still remain the case for the equity markets. And at this point any failure again would probably come first through identifying the first daily cycle low, seeing the separation to confirm the second daily cycle has started, then a rollover and taking out of those cycle lows, then that's a red flag and we could respond at that point. No point in talking about it much further though, again, because this is a pretty good powerful bull market trend.

What I want to talk a lot about is the precious metals. And, you know, if you've stuck to it and you've remained invested, it's been tremendous. No other way to say this.

Look at the gold.

Let me just remove this.

Look at the gold move here. It just looks really hot. No way for me to know for sure where this weekly cycle began and started or if it has or not because it's just a powerful, powerful bull market trend. No real breaches of a ten week moving average here over the last, what's that, six, seven months.

And sometimes you just got to throw out even cycle counts when you're in a bull market trend like this because you just want to ride that trend more than anything else. And this has been that. I mean, is another big green weekly candle.

Again, given up trying to predict or say when we should run from this.

Silver on the other hand just keeps on going. I mean, this is vertical. This is log scale and it's vertical.

This is so overbought and it has been for so long. And we were saying that back here at fifty two, it was so overbought. And then especially this move to seventy seven, here we are at one hundred three and still going. So it's been tremendous.

I have very little exposure besides a trading position in silver. Gold, however, has picked up a lot of the slack. Not as much, of course, but the miners have they've held up well. Some people wanna complain that miners are are not following script.

I disagree. I think this is just great.

We're now at one forty five on GDX just a just a few months back at sixty five. It's more than doubled again.

Here's that's GDX. That was GDXJ before. One hundred and seven on GDX.

And we also have a similar move on SIL. Right? So again, back a year ago, we're at thirty on this.

It's all good news but what I want to talk about in the model portfolio is it's time to I think take a lot of profit, rebalance and again it's going be different for everybody but let me talk about that now in the portfolio allocations. I've done two things here. Well, I've done a number of things, but in terms of precious metals, I've actually raised the core, what a core allocation looks like, thinking more and more about the environment coming forward and how I want to be positioned.

I've raised this to twelve point five percent, which was kind of the overweight level before.

So I haven't changed the current allocation, but I've raised the core. So now I'm back to a core even though the allocation hasn't changed. I hope that makes sense. However, if you've been invested in precious metals over the last year, that position does not represent twenty five percent of your portfolio. It should be more like fifty or so.

So it's time if you can add to your portfolio, it's the number one thing you can keep on doing. Keep adding and adding fresh capital. And when you add fresh capital, you're adding to the other buckets to bring this allocation down. So you're not selling or you're avoiding selling as much as possible. But I do think right now, given what some of these charts look like, these are weekly, not dailies, weekly charts. When you look at the Bollinger Bands, full candles way beyond that. Silver at the same time, similar kind of thing.

These, again, I've always preached stay the course in bull market trend. The big gains to a portfolio like precious metals have given us come from holding and not being afraid of losing that open profit. However, there's a time though where you have to harvest and I think this is it.

So again, I still want to have good solid allocation to these metals, twenty five percent of a portfolio. But again, your portfolio should have a much higher representation in these assets if you've been following the script.

And now it's time to trim. Best way add more capital to bring that down.

Second is take profit. You should be in a long term gain perspective which lessens sort of any sort of tax burden. Tax burdens vary by of course locality.

And also of course if you're in an IRA or a four zero one ks, a self directed sort of retirement tax advantage account. You're not caring about that at all. And a lot of my accounts are in those as well. So let me answer the tax question which I get a lot.

I can't factor in tax considerations because everybody's in different places and has different tax level rates depending on where they are, depending on their income, depending on whether or not it's a tax account or not.

So I don't consider that.

But that said, even for myself, I don't really consider tax. Do you know why? Because I don't want, when I get into a position, I have a strategy behind it and I have a target or a place where I wanna sort of start taking profits or rebalancing. And if I'm influenced by what my tax burden might be, then what's the point of having a target? What's the point of having a strategy? You may as well just buy and hold if you're afraid of selling something because there's a tax burden. Now, of course, if you've had an open position for eleven months and you're a few weeks or maybe a month away from turning that into a long term gain, sure, that's a consideration you're going to make.

Otherwise though, I don't really consider the taxes. I pay my taxes on a gain because there are situations where like these miners for example, if they peak, they could drop thirty, forty percent. I don't want to try and avoid a tax burden on something and then write a loser down. What was the point of writing the winner if I'm going to write it down again?

Same goes for other assets as well. So in general, I don't consider taxes. I try and get my accounts in tax advantage accounts. I try and go for long term gains as well by holding longer periods.

But overall, I don't sort of factor it in. So that's a question I get asked a lot.

So the change here is it doesn't reflect a change in the current allocation, but you should be getting it back to that allocation in my opinion.

So that's the main change coming into Monday here. I think it's a good time to harvest and really bank it. And then if precious metals continue, like I think they will, even though I think we're going to be coming through into a turbulent period at some point, I think over the longer period it's going to do well and that exposure is going to be good enough, I think, to capture some gains. Other changes I've made here.

I've changed the commodities allocation to something called PIC, which is more focused on actual companies in the commodity space versus the commodity tracking fund, which doesn't really respond very well.

I've also added materials. I've had this in my portfolio for a long time, but I have mentioned, I didn't mention at the beginning of the year that I'm going to start expanding this and get it more detailed. The whole idea of the model portfolio was just to be broad and sort of easy to follow. And you may want to stay on the broader categories that I had before. I'm adding more kind of detail.

It doesn't mean you wanna follow this or have to follow this exactly. I'm just providing kind of what's sort of more in my portfolio.

I added a rare earth index, which has done really well. These are small allocations overall, right? But I'm just broadening that out a little bit. In the coming weeks, I'm gonna broaden out the equities component because I do invest in sectors.

For example, the defense sector is something I have an allocation in, and that would just be taking off the forty percent bucket allocated to equities. As opposed to a broad tech and S and P five hundred index, you may want to be broadening out. For example, there may be an AI component to that. That's a little more specific than, say, just the tech.

And I'll get into that in the coming weeks. The plan is to expand on this. One last note on the model portfolio is that it's impossible to structure a portfolio with hundreds or thousands of people in mind. When you visit a financial advisor, for example, the whole point of structuring a portfolio is to structure it based on your needs, your goals, your current situation, your age, your income, many, many, many factors.

So I'm not I'm sharing this just simply giving you a guide of how my portfolio in the long term account is structured. It's not going to be the same for you. I'm in my 50s. I have different goals and needs now.

I'm more in a defensive posture than super aggressive even though I think this is even done better than the most aggressive portfolios have done.

Keep that in mind, right? You need to do your own research. You need to speak to your own financial advisor as well before looking at that. This is an educational guide on how I allocate. Again, I'll get into more of a breakdown on the equity side. I have rebalanced this to a hundred percent, of course, meaning that if we believe we should be allocated to all the buckets, you'd be at a hundred percent.

I've reduced the bond allocation further because I think in this environment of massive, massive government debts that just don't seem to be coming down, that I want less exposure to government debt than anything else. However, again, just like I mentioned, there's a place for things like munis and other government debts that provide good income, that are tax preferred, and they may work for you. I can't get into that level of detail on this type of portfolio. So added some more here in the commodities bucket overall and readjusted those.

Also readjusted the overweight allocation. Again, this represents a margin account. Not everybody has a margin account. Not everybody can have a margin account or wants to.

So again, just to reiterate, whenever this goes over a hundred percent, it just means margin is being employed.

And if you don't have that, then you just rebalance this level to one hundred percent to get the weighting that makes sense.

So with that, that's the model portfolio changes. Precious metals is going back to that real quick. I think we're in the final kind of well, wouldn't say final for the bull market, but for now it's been a phenomenal run. Some of these are gonna pull back and they're gonna pull back sharply.

And we can't avoid that. So you may be asking, well, why still have a twenty five percent allocation if you think they're gonna pull back? One, I don't know when they're gonna pull back. Sometimes a bull market just can get so ridiculous so ridiculously stretched it's not even funny.

So I want to have that exposure. Two, by harvesting all those gains and don't forget GDX, GDXJ, gold. So they're up 3x, 4x and so on. So that's been phenomenal.

This represents a massive profit taking event, even though you still have twenty five percent of your allocation there. So I think we've taken enough profit overall, should be that this is this is something I'd be okay with if this peaks out because when I zoom out and look at gold and look at gold. I mean, that's gonna pull back, and it's gonna pull back significantly at some point. But I think the duration of this bull market has a long way to go. And this is what I think using the analogy here. I think we're looking at a bull market that has many years ahead, but it's just gonna have some pullbacks. And we'll have to work with that in the model allocation.

I don't think it's something I want to be at this phase going more to an underweight position because of that. So going back to metals, as I mentioned, trimming, scaling back, but it's been a great ride overall.

The dollar, and this is really interesting, the dollar here had a massive sell off.

And that fueled silver, fueled gold significantly.

And we have a failed cycle right here. So look at that. We have a failed cycle, which means we have a day fifteen high and a continuation lower.

What we want to see though is on the weekly.

And if you recall last week, I said we're time to go down here. We're gonna go down and we did. And my expectation has been that we'll go down and test this lower level because this was the declining phase of the weekly cycle as you can see. And we got it this week.

Bigger and quicker than I thought. Thought it'd take three weeks maybe to get there, but we got a massive sell off there. I think a lot of it geopolitical, of course, what went on in Davos this week and so on. But here is a failed daily cycle towards the declining phase week eighteen.

We're coming down to a weekly cycle low soon, but this tells me that we've got a few more weeks to the downside. So dollars playing well. Unfortunately, Bitcoin, if you look at what gold metals did as a result of that dollar drop and Bitcoin went down. It shouldn't be going down.

It's a hedge asset. Right?

Well, supposedly we want it to be, but it didn't respond to such a drop in the dollar, which is, that's not good. I don't like this at all. I've talked a lot about this, but I still think we have a chance because a sixty day cycle low is coming in or should be almost in. A little bit of a flag pattern right there. Maybe one more drop with equities. Take out the lows from last week. Form a sixty day cycle low.

But overall it's not a good look when equities at all time high, the dollar's dropping hard and metals are surging and this is just nine weeks of sideways action. That is very very much bear market behavior unfortunately.

So looking very closely at this and looking to go to an underweight position, giving it a maybe a little too much leeway here, but I think after the sixty day cycle begins, we should get another move up. I want to see if we can get a big move up to the hundred thousand level beyond. Otherwise, waiting for the sixty day cycle load form so we can put a line in the sand as well where we wanna then cut our exposure if it was to take that out.

Crude oil as well here. Good move.

Back up.

New cycle or not new cycle at the mid just past the midpoint already on the weekly time frame.

Here we are here.

Right? It's hard to say exactly what happened here. A little bit of a failed intra week cycle.

Overall though, it doesn't look as if it has enough to get back into the higher numbers. I think it can still get up to the sort of mid sixties or so, but I think it's still gonna be supply constrained right here. However, the producers are still doing well.

You can find IXC, and this is good. This is good. It's up around ten or so percent in the last few couple of months. Don't forget paying a three point five percent dividend to your account, which is should be reinvested.

So this is making some highs going back to March twenty four with crude oil prices stuck lower. So the good thing about lower prices is producers become much more bottom line focused and efficient.

Then eventually if you can get an expansion in energy prices their margins are in a much better position to do well from it. So that still is working in our favor here with energy producing. So that said, let's take a quick look. I haven't checked in on the bonds and for good reason. It looks as if we have another cycle there.

So what do we say here? We're looking in the we're in a declining phase right here looking to see if that could hold. It's holding this lower level though, but rates are still elevated and they can't get them down, it looks like. At some point I think this will become a good trade again.

And probably in a poor environment, I still think flows will go to government debt or US debt, even though debt levels are exploding. Ultimately, when a lot of capital needs to move, that's going to be the place where they're going go. And I think bonds will rally. But right now, it still looks really weak. It's been in decline since the COVID era.

And that's kind of the longest period of decline, I think, for bonds in a very, very long time.

So keeping our allocation where it is for now I think makes perfect sense. So that's the report. I hope you've enjoyed it. I'm wishing you all a great week ahead. Take care.