Hello, Fintech members. Bob Lucas here on Saturday with a full weekend report. I hope you're well. Again, wishing you a happy New Year, and I wanna welcome all the new members to the service. Thanks for being here.

Looking at the S and P five hundred, I just see nothing but very bullish action on the cycle front on the daily, on the weekly, and still also from a four year cycle perspective. Still green lights across the board.

And by that, what I mean is we are getting closer now to the end of this first daily cycle. Daily cycles, of course, run forty trading days.

We're on day thirty three. Last week, I said, I think we'll see another high in this cycle, making it a firmly nice, right translated first cycle of the weekly cycle, and that's what we did on Friday. We closed strong. I like when the market closes strong on a Friday, people going into the weekend loaded up.

This is a new all time high for the market, again, another one. And that just speaks to the underlying strength that we have. Even though I think there are still these overhang concerns that the market is overvalued across the board, But historically, that doesn't really matter until it matters in the end, right? When the market finally collectively decides that the market has peaked, that's when all of a sudden that really matters.

For now, the price action is very strong. I like this price action as well. We had the last weekly cycle high back in October. We had a pretty mild weekly cycle decline, just a half daily cycle decline into the weekly cycle.

So this is the big weekly cycle. We know that from the weekly cycle timing. When you look at this, we had thirty three weeks, which is a very long, right, a translated extended cycle. Here's that four week decline.

But what's evident about this, what makes it very bullish is the fact that we had four weeks to clear sentiment of the twenty nine week move off those April lows.

Big, big cycle and twenty nine rising weeks in the cycle were pretty much reset within four weeks. And that's just a sign of a very strong bull market when you only need kind of four red candles, not much of a price decline to really just reset sentiment enough. And we see that in sentiment indicators where this was enough to reset and begin again. We also this five, six weeks in the new weekly cycle is also part of that consolidation.

So we had the four weeks declining into the cycle low. And the reason why we haven't sort of slingshot up into new highs and beyond is because we need to consolidate all these twenty nine weeks of gains, and that's what this functions with. And this is what you see here in this first daily cycle. I believe it's just testing that resistance level and just absorbing the sellers in this area.

Now it's starting to leak higher. You see the high in December, and you see the high end of December, and you see another high. So this is just higher highs and, of course, higher lows. This is just a perfectly right translated daily cycle.

I think you probably get a little bit of a pullback into the cycle low.

Our indicator is now turning in the second half of this cycle. That's pretty normal. We're on day thirty three. We'll start on Monday, day thirty four.

Wouldn't be surprised with a little bit of a move up, a little bit of a move down, and then you begin the second daily cycle, which I think is the one that finally really pushes through all time highs and it does not look back and becomes a continuation of the bull market trend that we've seen. Now this also may come another way. Because it is so powerful, you could also just get one of these just grinding kind of moves like this, really coil coil up hard and then release higher. So this is kind of the more bullish interpretation, which we often or sometimes see in a very bullish market.

Meaning that, yes, we're in a declining phase of the cycle, but there are just too many buyers in the market absorbing those sellers. And then via time, it gets released, and then the new cycle begins, and then we're off to the races. I don't see many real downside interpretations here across the board.

And that is simply because you look at the weekly chart. It's a very, very good looking chart. And then we widen it out to the monthly, and we look at it from a four year cycle perspective. And what you see is a powerful bull market since October twenty twenty two only interrupted by a brief declining phase here and then the tariff scare, the April shakeout that's allowed this big slingshot move to occur.

And this tells me that we're in the final phase of this four year cycle, but where that peak occurs still has a lot of open interpretation. We could be looking at Q1, we could even be looking at Q2. The cyclical bear markets that are associated with the four year cycle decline can be as short as four to five months. All you need is a good shakeout, a good downturn, a good washout to reset a four year cycle.

And so this means that we could, in theory, be pushing all the way into April, May, maybe even as far as June. That's probably being a little too aggressive. But when you look at this and you look at the top of that channel, the interpretation for me is that we're about to reaccelerate again after this pause in the weekly cycle, reaccelerate, and then go off into sort of that final phase of the four year cycle to a peak. Therefore, on the weekly chart, the assumption is for me that this will become another right translated weekly cycle, probably not a twenty nine week run.

That was fairly historic. It's definitely an outlier, but a powerful right translated cycle can go as far as nineteen and twenty weeks before hitting a high. So for me, my main view, and it's a pretty high probability view, is that let's say fifteen weeks, which is early March to as far as say twenty weeks, which is early April. That early March to early April window, and historically, April has been kind of a turning point in markets, but I could see a big powerful push between now and say March into the high of this current weekly cycle.

And then if that was to occur, it becomes a really strong candidate now, a couple more monthly candles, especially if they're big moves up towards the top of this channel becomes a pretty good candidate for a peak in the four year cycle as well.

So again, looking at this sort of breaking up to the upside, some pullbacks. Here's a push up into that March time frame that creates the high of the weekly cycle.

You get a pullback into the weekly cycle low, then you get an attempt. And often, this becomes like a double top on the weekly time frame, and then the rollover begins in the four year cycle decline, which becomes a cyclical bear market decline, which in theory is just another cycle, another reset on a longer time frame. On the secular time frame, You look at this as a bull market that began back in two thousand and nine now into, what's that, the seventeenth year. Historically, these run for closer to twenty years, which is why I think in age of AI and tech expansion that we're looking at a four year cycle.

And of course, we're talking now twenty twenty seven, twenty twenty eight, twenty twenty nine, but looking perhaps at yet another four year cycle that's bullish, that's right translated. So once we come out of those lows, you're looking at that sort of run up to a peak in the secular bull market, which would then again all in theory or based on sort of cyclical historical behaviors, this becomes a period, a decade of a secular bear market move. Getting ahead of myself here, but you can see how this progression could unfold based on sort of historically what we've done in the secular bull and bear market periods.

So therefore, the twenty twenty kind of thirty time period, you're looking at sort of a bear market.

Of course, major moves, retest of highs. It's more of a sideways consolidation with significant drawdown periods into cyclical bear markets. So what's characteristic of that is left translated four year cycle. So just using that as an example, we had one and then followed by perhaps a second one. And then, of course, the reacceleration and the new bull market, of course, we're probably I may not be around by that point, but just just saying from a very long term view how this unfolds. But right now, just coming back down to earth and looking at more immediate time frames, yes, four year cycle, getting close to a peak, valuations across the board are very, very rich historically.

And that this is the period where you get that sort of final speculative move that can unfold. So I think we're getting closer to that point. I think also, I've mentioned a couple times about going into an overweight allocation on equities. I think that makes sense as well. If you wanna take on more risk in the portfolio, this is a good ideal time for that. And you have a really good stopping point right here with the lows, the weekly cycle lows in November.

That allows a rebalance there because this is where you want to be defensive. If this this is now an absolute confirmed new cycle, very clear week. I think it's six or seven, just finished week seven, beginning week eight. So we now have this new cycle that's without any doubt.

Therefore, any move up and that gets failed and rolls over is caution and is also what a four year cycle peak would look like. A four year cycle at this phase of the cycle, three years in, starting to enter into the fourth year, Any failed weekly cycle that occurs this late in the four year cycle is or comes with a extremely high probability that the equity markets have peaked for the four year cycle. So anything like this, you wanna run away from. You wanna get defensive.

But again, that is just outlining the worst case or the risk way we wanna be defensive. I think the interpretation again remains that we're in a powerful bull market. We're in the final phase of the four year cycle and that we're heading higher. Traders, I think there's a long here.

I've taken a long here as well. And you wanna be just a little cautious of, again, that little pullback to retest some of these lower areas as part of a decline to a cycle low, but long here. And you can use the mid cycle point right here as a stop. Because in the first daily cycle, in a in a uptrend in the weekly cycle, we should not be retaking out the mid cycle point.

That mid cycle point is pretty key. That would be indicative of perhaps the danger outlined in this weekly cycle load being taken out. So the mid cycle point is a very good point. Really aggressive positions who wanna take on some more size, of course, have to have a tighter stop.

You can use this candle right here. Although I think that's at some threat in a pullback in a cycle low.

A bit of a shakeout to here. There's a bit of a threat before this occurs. So that's maybe getting a little too tight and aggressive, but, of course, the wider the stop that you have, the smaller the position you has to be to accommodate that stop.

But I do think this here is an opportunity as well, like I mentioned. So all green lights across the board here in equities and are liking what I'm seeing. What's a little more confusing is what's going on in the metals front. We're seeing a lot of volatility, especially in silver.

We're seeing three, four dollar days now almost every day. I did think this would be the peak for silver, but it's just holding up really, really well. Generally, when you have a blow off in something like silver, it's reversed rapidly. And I would have thought that this move up to the peak, that was the blow off, maybe a small test, maybe a little bounce back, but this would have been doing this already.

It's not or hasn't just yet, which leads me to believe that perhaps this is setting up. It's a half mask position on this move and that perhaps it's setting up for yet another continuation or something like this up to a very big number. Now I know I've rotated the model portfolio from SLV in the hedge position to GLD.

That's just me saying we had a big, big run, and this looked like a blow off back in October, and it wasn't we we held through that. And this, to me, really felt like a blow off, and that was the the reason for kind of banking some of those gains with the idea that gold, of course, would also drop if silver was to have already peaked, but nothing close to that level. Because silver, if this was a blow off move, would probably retrace around thirty five percent. I don't think you would see that from gold. But we'll have to just take it as it comes.

If you wanna add if you wanna go back and add more or have more risk, of course, you know, having silver in there or keeping silver in there still makes some sense. And maybe now you're looking at sort of that seventy dollar level, which is around thirteen percent from here. So it's still a sizable amount, but anything below that that that pullback that we saw, anything below that is a top in my opinion and heading back down to maybe the fifty dollar range. But again, what I've been saying for the last two years and why I've remained overweight overall is this is just a really powerful bull market, even more powerful to date so far than the one we experienced during the two thousand era.

And it's just the steepness of this. If you look at the monthly on gold, see how vertical that is? And these are monthly candles, and they're pretty much all green except for one, two, three, four green candles in the last getting on to two years now. This is why you wanna hold the line.

Now this is a pullback at some point, and I mean a nasty pullback. But for me, this is still a secular bull market in terms of duration. If you look at the duration of the secular bull market in two thousand and one to twenty eleven, from a time perspective, of course, nothing's in the mirror the same. But from a time perspective, we're still relatively early.

But look at the slope.

Right? It's way, way, way ahead. So pullbacks are gonna come. That's part of trend following and investing. We're gonna have to deal with that.

I don't wanna be losing sort of position. There are plenty of opportunities or plenty of reasons over the last year or so where you've got this big paper profit and you say to yourself, I wanna protect that. I wanna realize those gains and you've sold out. And in a bull market, you're get left behind.

Same kind of applies here. You look at these green candles. You look at how stretched it is, and you think, I wanna bank that. And look, some you're gonna do some rebalancing over time.

If something really outperforms, of course, you're gonna do some rebalancing.

But to to really sell down a position out of fear that you may lose your open profit in a bull market often doesn't work out too well.

Now let's look at the daily on gold. The cycle counts aren't as clear because it is just so powerful. This is let me go back to gold on the weekly. So what we what we see here is that gold looked to have peaked in week eighteen or should have probably, especially when we had that red candle and silver kinda dropped.

But this reacceleration this last week leads me to believe that maybe this wants to go one more time and put in a really long cycle. Gold cycles have been fairly consistent. As you can see, fourteen weeks to a peak. We're at a twenty week move and seventeen.

This is already eighteen, nine. This is already twenty weeks in. Forget another push, I have to say this is part of the same cycle, part of the same rising cycle. And therefore, a decline would have to come.

But again, in a bull market, sometimes you just don't overbought stays overbought and remains overbought for a long period of time, which is why the best way to handle it is just to stay the course and ride those that emotional need or urge to wanna sort of cash out of these positions. So not so clear where we stand on the weekly. It was very clear last week. For me, it was eighteen week high.

Here's the beginning declining phase of the cycle, but we've already turned. So in a very powerful bull market, what if this becomes a one week decline?

Not very common, very unlikely, but in a blow off kind of move, that may be what it's what what could be setting up. So one thing I've been thinking about is if this here is the weekly cycle low already, then what that implies to me is that we are in some type of blow off phase. And you can see this by the steepness in the monthly and the amount of green candles. But maybe it's gonna be doing something like this, just one big blow off to a high by the summer, and then that becomes the first half of this eight year cycle. So we're looking now at currently sitting on month thirty eight.

This would be, say, a month forty two high. An year cycle typically will run kind of like that ninety six, ninety seven, kind of into the end of the decade sort of thing. It's a long cycles, of course, interrupted by your midpoint at some point around that sort of forty eight month level.

So we could be looking at something like that, probably a little bit more extended pullback into the mid cycle point and then a continuation of that bull market. Different interpretations and you can get caught up in interpretations. I think the one thing that remains true is the amount of green candles that we have in the monthly, very powerful bull market. So we want to stay the course there. Miners, they're playing they're their own. Of course, they haven't. Well, in some regards, they have kept kept pace with silver.

Looking at GDXJ, for example, making another new high this week, still looks really good.

So we're starting to see the miners really play play ball and stay the course with what we're seeing in silver and so on. So again, we're just staying the course on the miners staying overweight, the allocations.

And again, I've shared platinum and palladium with you. They still look really good, especially palladium. I I think I like this still like this more.

And having an alternative allocation to this beyond the silver allocation also makes sense because I do think palladium is mirroring prior bull market moves where it just sort of grinds and grinds and grinds. And I think that's kind of what we're looking for. We're looking at a move that still has a lot of room ahead of it.

Let's take a look at USD.

So this is a weekly interpretation here. It's possible weekly cycle low, but unlikely, maybe a retest of the ten week moving average rolls over and one more decline into the weekly cycle low, possibly a double bottom situation starting to develop. It has been fairly bearish now for a full year plus, but I don't think this weekly cycle has necessarily ended. Looking at crude oil, it's really the same, same, same.

It's under pressure, which makes sense. The economy is not humming. Demand is not outpacing the supply in any way. We just had Venezuela, of course, where it's all about the oil.

Now, that oil is not going to come online quickly, but it could come as a good amount of it can come online relatively quickly. And as I've been saying for the longest time, OPEC nations need to keep on pumping. They have debt. They have citizenry that that that wants their their checks and so on, their social programs.

They have to keep on pumping. There's a lot of supply out there, which I think is just going to keep this relatively contained. And we're seeing a lot of left translated cycles, possibly one right here.

But the last three were all very left translated. I think there's an ultimate floor around this low fifty dollars range, though. I think in this day and age, this many years of inflation, crude behind below fifty just doesn't become economically viable at that point, even for some of the big easy producers out there, the way inflation is now.

So I think there's an ultimate floor around this level, but I don't see the real catalyst for crude trading back up into the high or the 80s for some period of time. So this sort of sector is kind of in a void even though, of course, I do have an allocation to energy because I always feel energy is one of those cash generating industries that it just makes sense having an allocation in a portfolio. So and the energy ETF has actually done pretty well. Look, this is a good looking chart still.

And of course, yielding a good amount of income for a portfolio as well, around three point five percent in yield that comes from this that can be reinvested back in the ETF or used to generate cash to buy other assets. So the ETF, even though crude oil prices have been down, of course, crude doesn't only make up what energy companies earn from. It's a big component, but I still like this allocation overall.

Lastly, looking at the Bitcoin weekly cycle, this is depressing in my opinion. I still think we're going to get this counter trend move up to this level.

But again, what remains very, very evident is the divergence and the lack of relative strength versus other risk assets. And that to me is extremely telling even when there's billions being poured in by institutional funds, excuse me, debts and so on, it's being held down. I think this is in trouble, and I still think that the high of the four year cycle is in. That's the evidence, especially as each day and week ticks and equities keep pushing closer and closer to their eventual four year cycle high. I think that divergence here is gonna remain. I think what you will see, though, is if equities go on that eight, ten week run over the next two months, of course, I think we could definitely see a good powerful move in Bitcoin as a result, which gets you into that March time frame where equity markets would peak perhaps in the four year cycle. This becomes a big counter trend move.

The sentiment levels with equities going on an eight to ten week run would be huge, would be very positive. And if Bitcoin gets back above the one hundred thousand level with stocks pushing and pushing all time highs, the roar from the bulls and the Bitcoin front, think, would be very loud. But probably, I would think time would be working against them as it comes up towards a peak.

So, yeah, that's looking at copper. That's a position. I know it took this late in the model portfolio and think it was back here in the sixty dollars range or so looking overbought, but now we're at seventy seven dollars So just again, in a bull market, things that trend and do well, have a habit of remaining and consistently doing well.

Stay with the course with a lot of those asset classes. Wishing you a great weekend, and I'll be with you soon. Take care.