Hello, followers of the four year journey. This is Bob Lucas on February five, twenty twenty six. I hope you're well. And this is a follow-up to the, I think, was around the Christmas period video discussing the bear phase that's coming up.

So the charts are ugly. There's no doubt obviously about that. We're clearly now in a bear market decline. I covered this in the last video where the four year cycle structure had topped and we were in a declining phase.

This has now accelerated. And we're at the point where they were beyond any doubt. Of course, we've lost the ten month. We did lose ten month in the last few months.

We've lost the twenty month moving average, and we're now clearly in and deep into the declining phase of this four year cycle. The unfortunate part is from a timing perspective and the most accurate component of any cycle analysis is the lows, not the top, the lows.

And we're still well short of the typical place where things will bottom out. From a sentiment perspective, we feel like we're very, very close. And in the short and intermediate time frames, we're also significantly oversold, which means that these five red monthly candles that we're seeing are probably we're probably gonna reverse it temporarily this trend and possibly even close this current month, which only started five days in the green. So I think a big counter trend move is probably now overdue. But in a bear phase, in a capitulation kind of environment, that's not something you can bank on as well.

The first kind of rule in a declining phase is that surprises come to the downside. The selling can always get worse than what it seems, and you're not trying to sort just pick bottoms, certainly not from a short term perspective.

Looking at the cycle count, we are now sitting on month thirty nine of the cycle that is measured, of course, from the bear market lows with a peak of thirty five months, which is matching the prior four year cycle highs. Now as you all know, people have been following for the longest time. I don't get married on the highs. It so happened that this one peaked on month thirty five again.

I think in future cycles, that would not be the case. But for now, we can leave that aside and focus on the declining phase. Month thirty nine, which means we've now closed more than three years. The window for where the next cycle low forms, however, is technically not until October of this year, which is still a long way out from this point forward. So technically, this four year cycle declining phase still has a number of months to go.

And, you know, these bear market declines are a process. They take time.

Even though sentiment today feels as if it can't get worse, generally, it's a process on the way down. It's a step down process. But in between that, there are these countertrend moves that help to sort of bring sentiment back more towards a neutral posture, allowing for the bare face to then continue on. So it's not just one straight move down is the point.

And you see that in prior cycles as well where you get these sharp moves down, then you get the counter and move, you get the counter and move, and it's a process. This is the first big leg down that hasn't really given us much of a move higher, and I think we're gonna get one of those moves soon. We just don't know from where that comes. Does it come from a lower level, maybe around the two hundred day moving average closer to the low sixty thousand? Nobody knows in the short term in an environment like this, but I think we will see at least one big sharp move higher.

That's probably a multi month even, multi week for sure, but a full monthly candle or maybe two monthly candles to the upside that would draw everybody back in and get them to start believing again in some of these washed up narratives like liquidity cycle and business cycle and cycles extended and all these narratives that I've been hearing. And frankly, over the last four, five months, received a lot of kind of hate on the four year cycle. It was very, very vocal, very loud from very, very many prominent people in the space. And the the price action here is showing us otherwise that this is a regular four year cycle from this perspective, and the declining phase is now firmly in control. I will say though that this and many people have pointed this out to this cycle from an on chain perspective, from an on chain metrics perspective was not like the prior cycles. And I agree with that. From a topping perspective, we didn't hit the euphoria that we expected or had seen in prior cycles.

Some of the on chain metrics that just didn't come anywhere near your traditional top levels. And my and I introduced this in a prior video, but my logical reasoning for that is simply that this was a bear cycle. Doesn't look like it from a Bitcoin only perspective. We made a clear all time high over many, many months over the prior cycle high.

But when you factor in that we had a president of the United States, the most powerful nation in the world, win an election and was extremely pro Bitcoin, pro crypto. We had a change in the SEC from an extremely, you know, negative crypto perspective to a very pro crypto. We had the ETF that was approved and launched. We had debts bringing in tens of billions of dollars, the ETF bringing in tens of billions of dollars and again, a regulatory change.

This move that you saw since those changes have really occurred, which was in this cluster, not match this price appreciation, does not match come anywhere near close to matching what we saw in those regulatory and institutional changes. And that's why this was and is, in my opinion, a bear cycle. We got off to a very fast start.

For me, what's going to be a left translated cycle. I don't think eventually is simply because of the tailwind provided by the those changes I just mentioned. When you look at total three, for example, right, what we did what we saw here was basically a double top. And again, given all those changes, the speculative side of this market couldn't even make a new high or barely made a new high from a market capital perspective.

That speaks volumes. And to me, this would have been yet another double top, and we would have seen much lower prices if it wasn't for all of those changes. So the reason for saying that is I do think that we have seen a radical major shift in the whole space, a shift from the cyberpunk era of freedom and individuality to a capture by TradFi and Wall Street institutions of this market. So the structure, the nature of crypto has changed, and I I think they are gonna pump this up in the next cycle and cycles to come.

But for now, we're gonna have to deal and work through complete washout of this space over the coming months. The other concern, and I know this looks attractive, sixty seven thousand on on Bitcoin. And and let me say, if you have a very long term view, you're a pure hodler, this is not a place you want to be selling. I'm not even going to be looking at selling any more in the four year cycle active hodl strategy at these levels.

No way you're selling at a forty five percent off the highs. Even though I expect lower prices this year, the risk reward just does not warrant selling at these levels. At a high level, yes, but not at these levels, not five months into this decline and five red candles. I'll talk about a little later on about some exit strategies, some more exit strategies perhaps coming up.

But for now, if you're purely looking at huddling, then you're starting to nibble in the sixties. You're certainly gonna be buying in the fifties if we get there or when we get there more likely in the coming months. So again, this is oversold significantly. But the main concern that we have is that the S and P five hundred, the equity market, stock markets also follow a four year cycle.

They have for many, many decades. Although the last few haven't been as clean, we still have a four year cycle here.

In the equity markets, that does line up as well with where Bitcoin found its cycle low. And right now, this just made an all time high in January and is threatening perhaps. It's still a very perfect bull trend as far as I'm concerned. There's no real sign that's broken down.

But if we get into the declining phase of the four year cycle for the equity markets, then that's certainly gonna hammer crypto at the same time. Maybe not to the same extent, and the argument could be made that crypto or Bitcoin is leading or has certainly is leading at the moment. This divergence is clear.

The argument could be made that Bitcoin bottoms out sooner than equity markets. But I think make no mistake, if the equity markets start to trend down, it'll probably be a two step process down first initial move lower and then a bounce and then another move lower.

If that were to occur, I see a situation where Bitcoin follows in the first big move lower and then possibly diverges out as the equity markets make a secondary or subsequent move lower that Bitcoin can bottom out at that point before that move and not follow down and continue to move higher. So this is still a risk. Equity markets haven't really broken down at all. They are certainly historically overvalued, and they're in the timing band for a peak of their own. So this is something we're gonna be watching.

But just switching back to Bitcoin here on this on this chart.

This to me looks like every other cycle is behaving like every other cycle.

And if you look at the carnage in the old coin space, which still has a long way to go perhaps, some of those big names are down sixty five percent from the highs, but they they have chart structures that look to me as if they're gonna fall yet another fifty percent at some point. Now again, this is oversold. They're all oversold, and I think a sharp move's coming. So from a from an exit strategy, last video sold some more at the ninety thousand level.

And I clearly stated in that video, the reason for selling at ninety thousand was I was concerned that we may not get the big counter move I was hoping for to exit some more. And just in case, I wanted to lighten up some more in case we've got this type of move that we're seeing right now. So that's the reason for that move. That was met with some pretty brutal kind of commentary in general for selling, But such as such as investing, I'm pretty happy with with that. What I wish happened differently and where I think this could have been done better from my perspective is I did have a significant order in to sell at one hundred thousand, and that counter move made it back to ninety eight, just two thousand shy of unwinding more of the position, which in hindsight, probably at the ninety or even at ninety five or some level up there should just start reducing positions.

My thought here was that we'd get a good counter and move back into that one hundred thousand range that didn't eventuate, and now we're at sixty seven. Again, the active huddle strategy is trying to unwind when the trend breaks, not trying to pick a top. It's not trying to say it's month thirty five, the calendars hit, let's just sell arbitrarily. It's not the strategy.

The strategy is to wait for clear evidence of breakdown and then start to unwind as much as possible that makes sense in preparation for the next four year cycle low where we can buy back in. So we have what we have at the moment. About half of that strategy has unwound. There was even a lot of hate back in April of last year at eighty thousand selling.

And most of that heat came from the strategy followers because I did post about strategy there. And strategy since then is down fifty six from the April sell and down seventy five. So if they had panic sell at that point, they'd be saving themselves around sixty percent. But again, water under the bridge at the moment here on on Bitcoin.

Again, this looks just like every other cycle. I think what we're gonna see at some point, I don't know if that's from a sixty thousand level, maybe even lower than that. Who knows? But at some point, I think by March, April, I think we'll see a bounce back.

We may get back to the ninety thousand level. We may even get back to ninety five or so. This is a process on the way down.

And any move up here will just get bulls excited again and create a new narrative about what just happened and a new narrative of why we can get it be a super cycle, why why the four year cycle is is broken even though the evidence here is pretty clear. And I think what you'll see after a counter move is the final move down another three or four month move down. Now the October lows is starting to become a focus again. Right?

Because people are saying, well, the four year cycle is right, and October is the next low because it happened, you know, around the four year mark. And that cycle happened the four year mark, the prior cycle, just like the peaks happened. And just so you know, cycle lows generally are way more consistent, and you you wanna kind of focus on that being the higher probability time frame for the next low. But they can fall much sooner and later too.

A ten percent swing on either side of that from a timing standpoint, bringing you four to five months sooner than where the sort of the ideal timing is. So four to five months there get you to a May time frame. Now the only way I see something like a May or early cycle low form is if this doesn't give us a good bounce back. A good bounce back over a month or two month period allows then for this to develop into a more prolonged bear market.

A much a continuation without any bounce gets to this type of washout and type of sentiment levels where a cycle low can form sooner. So gonna be watching out here over the next couple of months to see how this develops. But a situation where we have, say, seven red candles and we're at the fifty thousand level or so by the May time frame could well induce an early cycle low in the four year time frame. And a situation like that would basically look like a move down into say May around that maybe fifty thousand level, maybe lower.

Then what happens is you get a big bounce. And then instead of making a new low, you form a higher low around that forty eight month mark, and then the next cycle begins. I'm not gonna talk about what I think the next cycle might look like. I'll save that for this to unfold, to develop, to get a better feel and read for how this could be unfolding.

But right now, it's just a matter of being more in this sort of protective mode.

Long term holders are looking at this more from an opportunity standpoint. Whatever selling was to be done is over. This is well and truly into the bear phase of the cycle and again, too far down. If you're in all coins, though, I think the narrative still is that, yes, you're hurting. You're you're down significantly, but it's not too late to at least come out of it with some of your capital intact in preparation for the next cycle low. With that, I want to wish you all the best. Take care.